GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE MARCH 20 FIRST
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU&apos;RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE
TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL.
WOULD OUR CLERK PLEASE CALL THE
ROLE OF COUNSEL COUNCIL MEMBER
HAYNER HERE HOUSE MEMBER DISH
HERE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHERE COUNCIL MEMBER
SONG HERE COUNTERPROGRAM HERE.
THAT&apos;S WHERE DENHA HERE.
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE TELLS OUR IHR
HERE COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON
HERE, COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG&apos;S
HERE, COUNCIL MEMBER AMAWI HERE
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCIL FOR THIS SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER GRAND DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR POST
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
KNOW MAYOR.
THANK YOU AND THE WE HAVE NO
INTRODUCTIONS AND SO WE MOVE ON
TO PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
PUBLIC COMMENT.
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNTY AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
SPEAK AT PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE
TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED
UP IN ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR
CITY CLERK SPEAKERS HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO IT IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO WHETHER YOU ARE AT THE
PODIUM HERE OR AT HOME ON
ZOOME, PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR CLERK
WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN 30 SECONDS
ARE REMAINING AT THE PODIUM OR
UP BY ZUM PLI AND AND ALSO WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND SEE THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
KIRK WESTFALL
, KIRK WESTFALL.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER TODAY IS
TRISHA DUCKWORTH
.
MISS DUCKWORTH, YOU CAN GO
AHEAD
.
&gt;&gt; HELLO IN THE EVENING YOU ARE
OH I WANT TO JUST TAKE A
MOMENT.
I LOOKED OVER FIRST OF ALL I
HOPE THAT YOU ARE UP THROUGH
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR I&apos;M ON
TONIGHT.
I BELIEVE THAT WELL, WE HOPE
THAT THIS WILL BE TURNED THAT
WILL START TO CHANGE THE
CULTURE THERE IN THE CITY.
EVERYONE WAS SO ADAMANT TO GET
RID OF TOM CRAWFORD AND I KEPT
TELLING PEOPLE IT&apos;S NOT A TOM
CRAWFORD ISSUE.
IT&apos;S A CULTURAL THE CITY ISSUE.
AND SO WE HOPE THAT THIS
CULTURE WILL BEGIN TO CHANGE
AND ARBER WILL DO MORE AND
PERFORMATIVE THINGS WHEN IT
COMES TO BUILDING RACIAL EQUITY
.
I SEE THAT YOU ARE REMOVE THE
WHITES ONLY CLAUSE GREAT.
BUT IT WAS PERFORMING MEAN
CREATED JUNETEENTH IS A HOLIDAY
GREAT BUT FORMATIVE YOU KNOW
ALL OF THE RACISM A HEALTH CARE
CRISIS ALL OF THESE THINGS ARE
PERFORMATIVE WHEN PEOPLE TRULY
BELIEVE IN SOMETHING WHAT DO
YOU SAY PUT YOUR MONEY WHERE
YOUR MOUTH IS MEANING THAT
ALLOCATE RESOURCES TO THE AREAS
THAT YOU NOW NEED THEM THE MOST
WHEN IT COMES TO THE FUNDING
WITH THAT IS BECAUSE I DON&apos;T
THINK THAT YOU ARE REACHED TO
THE PART OF THE COMMUNITY WHO
MAY NEED THOSE RESOURCES AND
THE WHITE HOUSE ENGAGEMENT
OFFICE WAS CLEAR TO STATE THAT
THESE WERE MEANT FOR THOSE WHO
SUFFER MOST COVID I&apos;VE SEEN WE
HAD ARTISTS THAT SUFFERED.
YES, BUT THE BLACK COMMUNITY
THE LOW INCOME COMMUNITY
SUFFERED GREATLY THROUGH THIS
CRISIS THAT WE&apos;RE LOOKING FOR
PROGRAMS AND ALLOCATIONS THAT
WOULD AID IN WHAT THE COMMUNITY
HAS GONE THROUGH THROUGH THIS
CURRENT CRISIS
.
AND I UNDERSTAND YOU ALL HAD A
PROCESS OF SERVING AND
ENGAGEMENT&apos;S ALL OF THAT.
BUT YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND A
PORTION OF THE COMMUNITY THAT
DOESN&apos;T ENGAGE IN THINGS LIKE
THAT BECAUSE THEY&apos;VE BEEN
IGNORED BY YOU ALL FOR SO LONG.
SO THEY&apos;RE DISENGAGED AND SO
THAT WOULD MEAN THAT YOU WOULD
NEED TO DO SOMETHING
DIFFERENTLY WHEN IT COMES TO
ENGAGING THE BLACK COMMUNITY IN
THE LOW INCOME COMMUNITY IN
YOUR AREAS BECAUSE IT IS LIKELY
THAT YOU HAVE GOTTEN FEEDBACK
FROM THOSE THAT ARE ON THE
PRIVILEGED STANCE AND MAY NOT
BE SUFFERING AS MUCH 30 SECONDS
THEY HAVE LOST LOVED ONES THAT
LIVE IN LOW INCOME AREAS.
WE&apos;RE JUST ASKING YOU TO REALLY
ENGAGE AND THINK ABOUT WHAT
YOU&apos;RE DOING WITH THIS FUNDING
ALSO EVEN INVESTING THE
GRASSROOTS ORGANIZATION
BLACKLEGS ORGANIZATIONS.
IT&apos;S TIME FOR ANN ARBOR TO
REALLY THINK ABOUT RACIAL
EQUITY AND STOP DOING IT ON A
PERFORMATIVE LEVEL AND DO IT ON
A MANNER WHICH REALLY MEANS
THAT YOU ARE INVESTED IN THE
BLACK COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK HER.
&gt;&gt; NEXT SPEAKER IS GLENN NELSON
.
MR NELSON CAN GO AHEAD AND
PRESS STAR SIX ON MEET YOUR
PHONE
.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GONNA OPEN ONE OF THE
LEADERS OF CITIZENS FOR MENTAL
HEALTH AND PUBLIC SAFETY WITH
WHAT YOU SAID ABOUT THE SYSTEM.
THE PEOPLE OF AFRICA AGREE ON
ANOTHER WELL IN THE ATTITUDE
THAT THE PROCESS OF ALLOCATING
OUR PERFORMANCE HAS GIVEN
ATTENTION TO CHILDREN AND YOUTH
ADMINISTRATORS DID NOT INCLUDE
SERVICES TO CHILDREN YOUTH IN
THE SURVEY THE DEPARTMENT
RESPONSES SURVEY DID NOT
INCLUDE MENTION SERVICES TO
YOUNG PEOPLE, EVEN THE SECTION
RESIDENTS FOR NIGERIANS DESPITE
RECOMMENDING AN EMPHASIS ON
SERVING YOUNG PEOPLE TO OUR
PERFORMANCE IN JANUARY, THE
YOUTH ARE SUFFERING
DISPROPORTIONATELY FROM THE
PANDEMIC.
THE SURGEON GENERAL STATED EVEN
BEFORE THE PANDEMIC, AN
ALARMING NUMBER OF YOUNG PEOPLE
STRUGGLED WITH FEELING
OF HELPLESSNESS, DEPRESSION AND
THOUGHTS OF SUICIDE.
THE PANDEMIC FURTHER ALTERED
THEIR EXPERIENCES AT HOME,
SCHOOL AND THE COMMUNITY AND
THE EFFECT ON THEIR MENTAL
HEALTH HAS BEEN DEVASTATING.
&gt;&gt; THE FUTURE WELL-BEING OF OUR
COUNTRY DEPENDS ON PUBLIC
SUPPORT AND ADVICE FOR THE NEXT
GENERATION PEOPLE MORE THAT OUR
NUMBER ALMOST SIXTEEN THOUSAND
ALSO NEEDS TO HAVE A DIRECT
INTEREST IN EACH WELLBEING.
AT LEAST FORTY TWO THOUSAND
ADULTS WITH A DIRECT INTEREST
IN YOUNG PEOPLE FROM ALMOST
FIFTY THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND THAN
EITHER CHILDREN OR ADULTS WITH
A DIRECT INTEREST IN CHILDREN
AMONG THE TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF ADULTS AND TEENAGERS WHO
CARE ABOUT YOUNG PEOPLE TO JOIN
ME IN URGING GREATER ATTENTION
TO YOUNG PEOPLE BUT CERTAINLY
OLD PROFESSIONALS THE
CONNECTIONS THE OPPOSITE SIDE
SHOULD NOT COME AT THE EXPENSE
OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR HUMAN
SERVICES.
&gt;&gt; WE RECOMMEND THAT FUNDS FOR
HOUSING RESPONSE COORDINATED
FUNDING THE UNIVERSAL BASIC
INCOME SOYLAND.
WE CONTINUE TO SUPPORT THE
APPROPRIATION OF FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS FOR MARKET FUNDS FOR
PROGRAMS SERVING YOUNG PEOPLE.
OUR DETAILED RECOMMENDATIONS
ARE ON OUR WEBSITE IF THIS IS
TOO MUCH TO ASK AND BEYOND THAT
SPECULATION SURROUNDS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR&apos;S RECOMMENDATIONS
AS A BACKUP OPTION WE URGE YOU
TO APPROPRIATE FIVE BILLION
DOLLARS FOR PROGRAMS SERVING
CHILDREN AND YOU FROM COUNTY
MENTAL HEALTH M.H. AND FROM
GENERAL FUNDS TO INVESTMENT IN
OUR FUTURE AND EQUITY AND
FINANCIALLY WE HOPE FOR THE
BEST WAY FORWARD.
&gt;&gt; WOULD YOU ASK AND HOW ARE
THE CHILDREN AS YOU FORMULATE
POLICIES?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DEVON MEIRA
.
MAYOR, I DON&apos;T SEE MR MEYER ON
THE CALL
.
MR MAYOR, IF YOU ARE ON THE
CALL PLEASE ENTER STAR NINE TO
INDICATE THAT IT IS YOU AND
THAT YOU WISH TO TAKE YOUR SPOT
AT PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVED TIME
.
ER I DON&apos;T SEE HIS NAME OR
PHONE NUMBER ON THE ZOOME CALL
OR ANYONE WITH STAR NINE.
&gt;&gt; NO VERY GOOD THANK YOU MR
WESTFALL.
&gt;&gt; AH OUR NEXT SPEAKER WHO IS
CALLED IN FOR PUBLIC WHO CALL
IN FOR PUBLIC RESERVE TIME BUT
NOW HAS ARRIVED HERE CHAMBERS
IS KIRK WESTFALL MAYOR GREATER
HIRING AN ADMINISTRATOR IS A
MOMENTOUS DECISION IF THAT&apos;S
WHAT COMES TO PASS TONIGHT BY
MANY ACCOUNTS ADMINISTRATOR
TONY HAS BEEN AN EFFECTIVE AND
HIGHLY RESPECTED BY THOSE WHO
HAVE INTERACTED WITH HIM.
I HAVEN&apos;T HAD THE PLEASURE YET
BUT I HOPE TO.
I SUPPORT WHATEVER HIRING
DECISION YOU MAKE AND
CONGRATULATIONS IN ADVANCE WHAT
IT SEEMS.
BUT I&apos;M HERE TO ASK TONIGHT
THAT YOU INVEST TIME NOW TO
THINK ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS AFTER
TONIGHT WHEN THE HARD WORK
REALLY STARTS MY RECOLLECTION
OF HOW THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
AND ATTORNEYS HAVE BEEN
EVALUATED WHICH IS ARGUABLY
COUNCIL&apos;S MOST IMPORTANT JOB
BASICALLY INVOLVES ANNUAL
EVALUATIONS AND GENERALLY NOT A
LOT ELSE FORMALLY FROM THE
COUNCIL&apos;S PERSPECTIVE UNLESS
THERE&apos;S A PROBLEM AND I HAVE TO
SAY THOSE EVALUATIONS ARE OFTEN
PRETTY GENERAL AS I RECALL
SEVERAL YEARS AGO THERE WAS AN
EFFORT TO HAVE MORE SPECIFIC
METRICS FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR
AND ALSO DOWN TO THE DEPARTMENT
LEVEL AND I DON&apos;T KNOW WHERE
THAT STANDS BUT I THINK THAT&apos;S
A VERY IMPORTANT EFFORT.
BUT I BELIEVE THE PROCESS
SHOULD BE IMPROVED TO HAVE MORE
SPECIFIC AND MORE FREQUENT
EVALUATIONS.
COULD IT BE QUARTERLY
EVALUATIONS OR AT LEAST A
QUARTERLY CHECK ON METRICS AND
AS WELL I THINK PROBLEMS SHOULD
BE DELIGHTED IN PROCESSES
SHOULD BE IMPROVED SO WE CAN
ALL LEARN FROM THEM AND PREVENT
THEM FROM HAPPENING AGAIN.
THIS COULD MEAN DOING
POSTMORTEMS ON MISTAKES LIKE
WHAT WE&apos;VE EXPERIENCED OVER THE
ROADS.
I DON&apos;T WHEN THE FIRST TIME
STAFF KNEW THAT A PLAN TO GET
THE ROADS FIXED WAS NOT GOING
TO HAPPEN BUT I CAN GUESS THAT
WAS CERTAINLY BEFORE LAST FALL.
SO WHERE DID THAT BREAKDOWN
HAPPEN AND HOW CAN THAT BE
PREVENTED IN THE FUTURE?
OTHER CRITERIA COULD BE BETTER
STAFF SATISFACTION TRENDS AND
WHY HOW OFTEN ARE THEY BEING
EVALUATED OR ARE WE ON TRACK TO
REPAIR AND REPLACE ROADS BY X
DATE?
ARE WE MEETING VISION ZERO
OBJECTIVES OR ARE WE STILL
GETTING ROADWAY INJURIES AND
DEATHS AND WHY ARE WE MEETING
THE FIVE MILES PER YEAR ALL
THOSE ALL AGES AND ABILITIES
BICYCLE LANE TARGET HOW MANY
TICKETS OR WARNINGS HAVE BEEN
WRITTEN FOR VARIOUS MOVING
MOVING VIOLATIONS?
THE COMMUNITY IS CONCERNED
ABOUT OUR WATER QUALITY METRICS
.
ARE WE TURNING THE RIGHT
DIRECTION FOR CARBON NEUTRALITY
?
ARE WE SERIOUS ABOUT DECREASING
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED OR WILL
WE BUILD MORE PARKING AND SEE
MORE STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
WIDENING ROADS WHEN WE SHOULD
BE NARROWING THEM?
HOW MANY HOUSING UNITS NEED TO
BE?
WE KNOW THAT INFILL HOUSING IS
THE NUMBER ONE REVENUE POSITIVE
WAY A CITY CAN IMPACT
CARBON EMISSIONS SO WE&apos;RE
MAKING PROGRESS.
WHERE ARE WE WATCHING CAR
DOMINATED FAST FOOD RESTAURANTS
AND DRIVE THROUGH BANKS ALL
OVER TOWN?
LET&apos;S MAKE SURE WE&apos;RE DOING A
FREE AND IMPACTFUL THINGS SO
PEOPLE FEEL GOOD ABOUT
SUPPORTING STUFF THAT REQUIRES
INVESTMENT CARE THAT OUR CITY
IS EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE.
&gt;&gt; SO LET&apos;S MAKE IT THE EASY
THING TO DO.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THE
COMMUNICATIONS FROM COUNCIL
COUNCILOR GRISWOLD, FIRST I
WOULD LIKE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE
ENTHUSIASTIC SUPPORT FROM MY
CONSED INSURANCE AND SENIOR
ADVISORS IN SUPPORT OF MY
RUNNING FOR REELECTION AND I
HAVE SAID PREVIOUSLY THAT I WAS
NOT GOING TO RUN FOR
REELECTION.
WE&apos;RE NOW ONE MONTH OUT FROM
THE DEADLINE FOR TURNING IN
PETITIONS AND SO AT THIS POINT
I WILL MOVE FORWARD WITH
GATHERING SIGNATURES AND AGAIN
THANKS TO EVERYONE WHO&apos;S GIVEN
ME THEIR SUPPORT.
SECONDLY, AT THE LAST MEETING I
USE THE TERM CORRUPTION AND I
JUST WANT TO PROVIDE A
DEFINITION CORRUPTION IS NOT
JUST BRIBERY.
IT INCLUDES THE ABUSE
OF DISCRETION, SOMETHING THAT
COUNCIL HAS ALREADY BEEN CITED
FOR WITH THE ATTEMPT TO HAVE A
200 WORD CORRUPTION ON BALLOT
LANGUAGE.
IT ALSO MEANS MAKING DECISIONS
BASED ON MISINFORMATION.
SO I JUST WANT TO EXPLAIN THAT
IT IS IT IS MUCH MORE THAN WHAT
WAS PROBABLY A SIMILAR WEEK.
AND LASTLY TO ADDRESS A TOPIC
THAT KIRK WESTFALL JUST TALKED
ABOUT
, I WILL BE BRINGING
FORWARD A RESOLUTION FOR
METRICS WHICH IS CALLED
PERFORMANCE TRANSPARENCY AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO COMMENTS AND
FEEDBACK FROM THE COMMUNITY AS
WELL AS COUNCIL MEMBERS AND
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
WE ALL AGREE WE NEED METRICS.
WE ALL AGREE THAT WE NEED
FEEDBACK LOOPS, MORE FREQUENT
FEEDBACK LOOPS BUT WE ALWAYS
SEEM TO GET BUSY AND NOT QUITE
GET THERE.
SO I HOPE THAT THIS RESOLUTION
WILL HELP US SUCCEED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COULSON.
&gt;&gt; BRITISH THANK YOU MR MAYOR.
I JUST WANTED TO REPORT ON
BEHALF OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
COUNCIL LIQUOR LICENSE REVIEW
COMMITTEE THAT WE ARE ACCEPTING
APPLICATIONS.
THE CITY IS ACCEPTING
APPLICATIONS FOR NEW CLASS C
LIQUOR LICENSES.
&gt;&gt; THESE ARE THE LIQUOR
LICENSES THAT ARE NOT IN THE
DOWNTOWN AREA BUT THEY ARE THE
ONES THAT ARE A KIND
OF PROPERTY IN THEMSELVES.
THERE ARE EIGHT LICENSES
AVAILABLE IN THE CITY DUE TO A
POPULATION INCREASE OF ABOUT
4000 RESIDENTS WHICH IS A VERY
EXCITING THING.
I&apos;M SORRY MY COMPUTER&apos;S MAKING
NOISE ADVOCATE.
THIS IS THE IMPORTANT THING.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE ACCEPTED
UNTIL 5PM FRIDAY, APRIL 22ND
AND MUST BE SUBMITTED TO THE
ANN ARBOR CITY CLERK&apos;S OFFICE.
SO ANYONE WHO WANTS TO OPEN A
BUSINESS AND PUT A BAR OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT NOW&apos;S YOUR
TIME AND MAKE IT INTERESTING.
CELTS MEMBER BRIGS.
THANKS.
I JUST WANTED TO PROVIDE A
QUICK UPDATE ON TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION ON AN INTERESTING
PRESENTATION THAT WAS PROVIDED
BY THE ANIBA TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY FOR THOSE WHO HAVEN&apos;T
HEARD ONE, THE THE RIDE IS
DOING A LONG RANGE PLAN THROUGH
TWENTY FORTY FIVE THEY&apos;VE
RECEIVED BEEN COLLECTING
COMMUNITY FEEDBACK FOR THE LAST
YEAR BUT THEY&apos;RE IN THE FINAL
STAGES THIS PLAN DEVELOPMENT
RIGHT NOW AND SO THEY&apos;RE
ACCEPTING FEEDBACK THROUGH
APRIL 15TH.
SO IT&apos;S WORTH GOING ON THEIR
WEBSITE THE RIG AND PROVIDING
THAT FEEDBACK SOME EXCITING
ELEMENTS THAT I&apos;M SURE FOLKS
HAVE FEEDBACK ON IT AND THEN
ALSO THEY PRESENTED THAT THE
RIGHT WILL BE CONSIDERING
MILEAGE RENEWAL AND INCREASE
THIS YEAR.
THERE&apos;S BEEN SOME INFORMATION
ABOUT THAT IN THE NEWS .
BUT JUST SO FOLKS ARE AWARE THE
POINT SEVEN PROPERTY TAX THAT
IS CURRENTLY RESIDENTS ARE
CURRENTLY PAYING THAT CURRENTLY
IS NOT ENOUGH TO EVEN MAINTAIN
CURRENT LEVELS OF SERVICES.
SO THE RIGHT HAS IS CURRENTLY
PROPOSING AN INCREASE TO TWO
POINT THIRTY EIGHT WHICH WOULD
BE A NET INCREASE OF ONE POINT
SIX EIGHT FOUR FOR THIS MILLAGE
THE THERE&apos;S THEY&apos;VE GOT A
WONDERFUL DETAILED PLAN ABOUT
HOW THIS WOULD BE USED BUT
BASICALLY OVER THE NEXT FIVE
YEARS THIS WOULD BE FIVE YEAR
RENEWALS.
IT WOULD PROVIDE AN L.A.
EXPRESS SERVICE LONGER HOURS
OF OPERATION SYSTEM WIDE
INCREASE IN WEEKEND FREQUENCY
SYSTEM.
I&apos;D EXPAND OVERNIGHT SERVICE AT
CUSTOMER SERVICE AGENTS AT THE
TRANSIT CENTER AND PROVIDE
FUNDING FOR MAJOR CAPITAL
PROJECTS JUST SO FOLKS KNOW FOR
EVERY DOLLAR AND LOCAL TAXES
THAT WE PROVIDE THEY&apos;RE ABLE TO
LEVERAGE ANOTHER DOLLAR FORTY
IN FEDERAL AND STATE TRANSIT
GRANTS SO THIS IS AN INVESTMENT
IN OUR AND OUR COMMUNITY.
AGAIN, THEY&apos;LL BE ACCEPTING
FEEDBACK ON THAT AT THROUGH THE
NEXT BOARD MEETING WHEN WHICH
WHEN THE BOARD&apos;S GOING TO BE
MAKING A DECISION AND I&apos;LL HAVE
MORE TO SAY ABOUT IT LATER.
&gt;&gt; THANKS FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL CATHERINE BRESSO
.
LAST WEEK I HOSTED A TOWN HALL
ON ARPA FUNDING WITH
CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE DINGELL
AND THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF COMMUNITY ACTION NETWORK.
IT WAS I JUST I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK
BOTH AND HOW THEY REPRESENTED
LOCAL NEEDS AND THE FIGHT TO
CONTINUE THE CONTINUED FIGHT TO
FIGHT FOR MORE FUNDING AND HOW
IT WAS HOW THE DENHA CONTINUES.
CONGRESSWOMAN DINGELL
ESPECIALLY NOTED HOW THE
PANDEMIC ISN&apos;T OVER AND THE
DISCUSSION REALLY WENT ON TO
SPEAK TO THE DEEP NEED THAT
EXISTS WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DEREK
MILLER SPOKE TO HOW TO REACT TO
THE NETWORK&apos;S DEMANDS FOR
SERVICES AND FEEDING OUR
CHILDREN IN OUR COMMUNITY 25
PERCENT OF WHOM LIVE UNDER THE
POVERTY LINE AND WE&apos;RE SERVICED
BY COMMUNITY ACTION NETWORK.
THE GROUP HAS NOT RECEIVED A
SINGLE FEDERAL SINGLE DOLLAR
AND COVID RELIEF FUNDING.
I ENCOURAGE YOU ALL TO TAKE A
LOOK AT SOCIAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS OR SPEAK TO SOCIAL
SERVICE DIRECTORS AND
UNDERSTAND HOW THIS NEED IS
ONGOING.
&gt;&gt; I ALSO WANTED TO SHARE A
CONVERSATION I&apos;VE HAD WITH
OTHER COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO&apos;VE
ENCOURAGED A SECOND WARD
RESIDENT TO RUN IN THIS
EXPECTING TO PULL PETITIONS
NEXT WEEK.
THIS PHYSICIAN SPECIALIZES IN
AND OF CARE AND END-OF-LIFE
CARE AND DISPARITY IN HEALTH
CARE SO I&apos;M EXCITED TO SEE THIS
RACE HAPPEN MORE TOO.
AND I&apos;M GRATEFUL THAT FOLKS
CARE SO DEEPLY ABOUT OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
COUNCIL MEMBER HERE.
YEAH, THANKS, MR. MAYOR.
I WAS GOING TO SAY ANYTHING BUT
I JUST WANT TO CORRECT THE
MOUTH OF MY COLLEAGUE FROM WARD
FIVE ABOUT THE MILLAGE THE CITY
CHARTER SETS ASIDE TO MILLS IN
THE CHARTER FOR ATAY SO THEY&apos;RE
NOT WORKING WITH POINT SEVEN
MILLS THEY&apos;RE WORKING WITH TWO
POINT SEVEN MILLS SO ADD TWO
POINT THREE TO THAT AND THEY&apos;RE
GOING TO BE OVER FIVE MILLS SO
THEY HAVE THE TWO MILLS BY
CHARTER AND THAT&apos;S I THINK
THAT&apos;S YOU KNOW PART OF A
CITY&apos;S RESPONSIBLE USE TO
SUPPORT TRANSIT AND THAT&apos;S WHY
IT&apos;S IN OUR CHARTER.
&gt;&gt; BUT SO YOU KNOW TWO POINT
SEVEN IS THE CURRENT MILL RATE
FOR THE ATAY COUNTY NO NELSON
I&apos;D LIKE TO ACKNOWLEDGE A FEW
PRETTY ALARMING EMAILS THAT
COUNCIL HAS RECEIVED ABOUT
TENANTS WHO ARE STRUGGLING TO
NEGOTIATE WITH LANDLORDS
RELATIVE TO THE EARLY LEASING
ORDINANCE THAT WE PASSED LAST
YEAR.
I&apos;VE FORWARDED SEVERAL PEOPLE
ON TO THEM WITH LEGAL SERVICES
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AND SO I&apos;M HOPING THAT THEY&apos;RE
GETTING THE APPROPRIATE SUPPORT
AND ADVOCACY THAT THEY NEED FOR
THE PROBLEMS THEY&apos;VE EXPRESSED
TO US.
BUT I ALSO WANTED TO SHARE THAT
I HAVE BEEN FORWARDING A
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF WORK THAT
WAS DONE BY G.O. IN TERMS
OF APPROPRIATE IMPROVEMENTS AND
AMENDMENTS TO THE EARLY LEASING
ORDINANCE TO MAKE IT STRONGER.
THANK FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL
.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO RECOMMEND
THE FOLLOWING NOMINATION FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION AT OUR NEXT
MEETING TO THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION.
SALLIE PETERSON.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO ANNOUNCE
WITH RESPECT TO ARPA FUNDING AS
FOLKS KNOW WE HAVE UNDERTAKEN A
SUBSTANTIAL PUBLIC PROCESS
AFTER RECEIPT OF THE STAFF&apos;S
INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO HOW WE SPEND OUR
FUNDING IN A MANNER THAT&apos;S MOST
CONSISTENT WITH WITH THE
COMMUNITY NEED IN OUR ABILITY
TO PROVIDE SERVICE AND CREATE
INFRASTRUCTURE, THE STAFF HAS
TAKEN THAT PUBLIC INPUT INTO
ACCOUNT AND PRODUCED A FOLLOW
ON SET OF RECOMMENDATIONS WHICH
HAS BEEN PRESENTED TO COUNCIL
AND THE PUBLIC.
WHAT WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE DOING I
BELIEVE AT CITY COUNCIL HERE IS
CONSIDERING THOSE THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS MY RESOLUTION
NEXT AT OUR NEXT MEETING I&apos;VE
ENCOURAGED COUNCIL MEMBERS TO
PROVIDE WRITTEN AMENDMENTS IN
THE SAME VEIN AS WE DO FOR OUR
BUDGET SO THAT MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC AND COUNCIL WILL
UNDERSTAND WHAT IS BEING
PROPOSED.
THOSE I EXPECT TO BE IN THE
PACKET ON THE FRIDAY BEFORE OUR
APRIL 4TH MEETING AND WITH
RESPECT TO THE WITH RESPECT TO
THE JTA MILLAGE, I DO WANT TO
JUST MENTION THAT OF THE
PROPOSED TWO POINT THREE EIGHT
OF THE PROPOSED TWO POINT THREE
MILLS THAT POINT SEVEN OF THAT
MILLS IS INDEED A RENEWAL.
AND SO I BELIEVE COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGGS, YOU KNOW, ACCURATELY
INDICATE THAT THE PROPOSED
INCREASE IS SOMEWHERE IN THE
ONEPOINT RANGE, NOT THE TWO
POINT THREE EIGHT RANGE
WE NOW
HAVE BEFORE US.
THE CONSENT AGENDA MAY THE
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY AND OUR
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER
LIQUIPEL EIGHT FOR CONVERSATION
C EIGHT FURTHER DISCUSSION THE
CONSENT ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF C8 PLEASE SAY I
POSED THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF C8 IS APPROVED
WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE DISSATISFY IN THE
VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT
TO SEE A SEVEN SEAT RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE A CONTRACT WITH
DITMAR GOSSET LLC FOR STATE AND
FEDERAL LOBBYING SERVICES THE
AMOUNT OF 120000 DOLLARS MOVED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER GRANTS TAKEN
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF STATE
COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER.
WELL THANK YOU MR MAYOR.
THE REASON I PULLED THIS OFF IS
BECAUSE I HAVE I&apos;VE HAD A
SERIES OF EMAIL EXCHANGES WITH
OUR ASSISTANT CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND I&apos;VE NOT BEEN
SATISFIED THE RESPONSES I I
SEARCHED FAR AND WIDE FOR THE
REQUEST TO CHANGE OUR LOBBY
FIRM A CONVERSATION THAT WE HAD
AT THIS TABLE AND IT DIDN&apos;T
EXIST.
&gt;&gt; I COULDN&apos;T FIND IT SO WHAT
WE HAVE HERE IS A TERMINATION
OF OUR TWENTY ONE SOME YEAR
LOBBYING FIRM AND THE
SUBSTITUTE MOTION OF A
DIFFERENT FIRM
, NONE OF WHICH
WAS REALLY COME BEFORE THE
WHOLE BODY EXCEPT FOR TONIGHT
ON THIS CONSENT AGENDA THE FROM
WHAT I CAN MAKE OUT FROM THE
Q&amp;A THAT I&apos;VE HAD GOING ON THIS
WAS INITIATED BY A MINORITY
GROUP OF COUNCIL BETWEEN THE
POLICY AGENDA AND THE
ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEES AND
JUST WENT AHEAD AND THE
ASSISTANT CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TERMINATED THE CONTRACT AND
THIS IS TO REPLACE OUR LUNGS
STANDING LOBBYIST.
I&apos;M NOT THRILLED ABOUT THAT
LACK OF COUNCIL PROCESS.
I I DIDN&apos;T REALLY HAVE ANY
PROBLEMS WITH OUR EXISTING
LOBBYING GROUP.
I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S THE KIND
OF THING THAT SHOULD COME
BEFORE THE ENTIRE BODY NOT JUST
ON A CONSENT AGENDA.
AND SO FOR THAT REASON AND
OTHERS I&apos;M NOT GOING TO SUPPORT
THIS TONIGHT FOR THE COUNCIL
THE IA THANK YOU.
I&apos;M HAPPY TO GIVE THE
BACKGROUND ON WHAT HAPPENED
HERE SO THE COUNCIL POLICY
AGENDA COMMITTEE RECOGNIZED
VERY EARLY ON WHEN WE WERE
FIRST SEATED UM AFTER OUR
ELECTION THAT IT HAD BEEN 20
YEARS SINCE THIS CONTRACT WAS
PUT OUT TO BID.
NOW ONE OF THE ISSUES THAT I
RAN ON AS A CANDIDATE WAS THAT
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE IN NO BID
CONTRACTS.
I THINK IT SHOULD BE
COMPETITIVE AND YOU KNOW THAT
THEY SHOULD BE FOR A CONTRACT
LIKE THIS SHOULD BE LET OUT
FROM TIME TO TIME EVERY YOU
KNOW, A COUPLE OF FEW YEARS UM
AND AND YOU KNOW, WE SHOULD
REASSESS THE MARKETPLACE AND UH
TAKE A LOOK AT WHETHER WE&apos;RE
GETTING THE BEST VALUE FOR OUR
DOLLARS AS A CITY.
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;S WIDELY
RECOGNIZED THAT NO BID
CONTRACTS ARE JUST NOT GOOD
GOVERNMENT.
&gt;&gt; SO SO WE STARTED HAVING
DISCUSSIONS, UH, AMONG THE
POLICY COMMITTEE WHICH IS A
PUBLIC MEETING ABOUT HOW TO
PROCEED WITH THAT.
AND UH IN THE MEANTIME, WE DID
HAVE TO AS A BODY PREAPPROVE
THE CONTRACT WITH OUR CURRENT
UH, LOBBYING FIRM.
BUT WHEN WE DID, UH, COUNCIL
MEMBER YOU MAY HAVE NOT READ
THE FINE PRINT WE WE DID IT
MONTH TO MONTH AND WE DID THAT
SPECIFICALLY BECAUSE WE WERE
PLANNING ON PUTTING THIS
CONTRACT OUT TO BID AGAIN FOR
THE FIRST TIME IN 20 YEARS.
I THINK IT&apos;S A GOOD THING WE
HAD A GREAT PROCESS UH, AS A AS
A POLICY COMMITTEE.
WE WORKED WITH STAFF TO PUT
TOGETHER AN RFP THAT WAS BASED
UPON WHAT SIMILAR CITIES HAVE
DONE AND OUR STAFF UNANIMOUSLY
OR THE COMMITTEE WHICH WAS MADE
UP OF STAFF UH UNAN MOSTLY CAME
FORWARD WITH THIS
RECOMMENDATION FOR US.
SO THERE&apos;S NOTHING UNTOWARD
HERE.
IT&apos;S JUST GOOD GOVERNMENT AND
PUTTING PUTTING OUT SOMETHING
TO THAT REALLY SHOULDN&apos;T HAVE
GONE TWENTY YEARS AND A MILLION
DOLLARS WITHOUT HAVING GONE OUT
TO BID VERILLI UM THANK YOU AND
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
THIS IS ONE OF THESE ISSUES
HERE TONIGHT THAT I&apos;LL BE TORN
ON.
UH, THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S SEVERAL UH
THERE&apos;S MANY MEMBERS OF THIS
BODY WHO DON&apos;T HAVE THE
PRIVILEGE AND ACCESS IN
CONVERSATIONS IN DISCUSSIONS
WHEN DECISIONS ARE MADE.
UNFORTUNATELY THAT IS THE
REALITY.
UH, APPRECIATE THE BACKGROUND
ON THIS HERE AT THE TABLE.
BUT BEFORE TONIGHT THERE WAS
VERY LITTLE UNDERSTANDING
BESIDES THE FOLKS THAT WERE
DIRECTLY INVOLVED WITH THESE
CONVERSATIONS AS TO WHAT WAS
REALLY HAPPENING.
UM, IT&apos;S JUST UNFORTUNATE THAT
WE TERMINATE A 20 YEAR
RELATIONSHIP THE WAY WE DO.
WE TERMINATED I THINK THIS
BODY&apos;S BEGINNING TO HAVE A
TRACK RECORD OF DOING BUSINESS
DIFFERENTLY AND I THINK WE
SHOULD BE I THINK WE SHOULD BE
MORE CONSIDERATE WHEN WORKING
WITH OTHERS.
I DON&apos;T KNOW A FULL
CONSIDERATION WAS GIVEN WHEN
YOU HAVE A TWO DECADE
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE FORMER
LOBBYIST.
FURTHERMORE, THERE IS AN EFFORT
HERE TO LOBBY NOT JUST AT THE
STATE LEVEL, AT THE FEDERAL
LEVEL AND THAT&apos;S WHY WE CHOSE
THE FIRM THAT&apos;S BEING PUT FORTH
TONIGHT FOR A VOTE THIS IS ALL
GREAT BUT THE ISSUE WITH IT IS
A LACK OF INCLUSION.
THERE ARE MEMBERS OF THIS BODY
THAT ARE NOT INCLUDED WITH
THESE DISCUSSIONS EVEN IF WE
SUPPORT THEM WE ARE LEFT IN THE
DARK.
SO I&apos;M JUST HERE TO SAY THAT
AND I HOPE IN THE FUTURE
THERE&apos;S MORE COLLABORATION WITH
OTHER MEMBERS OF THIS BODY AND
WE&apos;RE NOT JUST BLINDSIDED WITH
THINGS WHEN THEY COME ALONG
THIS MINUTE AND YES, THESE ARE
PUBLIC MEETINGS.
I ACTUALLY SIT DOWN NOW ON A
REGULAR BASIS TO LISTEN TO
MEETINGS THAT I SERVE ON.
SO I UNDERSTAND THE PUBLIC
NATURE IN THE PUBLIC RULES AND
THAT APPLY TO THESE
DISCUSSIONS.
BUT I FRANKLY FEEL THERE SHOULD
BE MORE INVOLVEMENT WITH ALL
MEMBERS.
&gt;&gt; THE BODY COUNCILOR HAYNER.
&gt;&gt; WELL, THANKS, MR. MAYOR.
AND I URGE MY COLLEAGUES NOT
SUPPOSE WHAT I DO OR DON&apos;T READ
I WAS WELL AWARE THAT THE
CONTRACT THAT WE VOTED ON TO
RENEW THE CONTRACT WAS A MONTH
BY MONTH CONTRACT WHICH
TYPICALLY MEANS YOU GETTING
READY TO CANCEL.
&gt;&gt; I GET IT.
BUT THE IDEA AND I WANT TO
THANK MR. PROFIT FOR HIS YEARS
OF SERVICE AND ALSO HIS
GENEROSITY AND YOU KNOW, KIND
OF GOODWILL AND IN THE LETTER
THAT HE WROTE US ALL AND
SETTING THAT ASIDE, THANK YOU
FOR CONFIRMING THAT THIS WAS
DONE BY A SMALL GROUP
OF COUNCIL THAT THE TERMINATION
WAS NOT BROUGHT TO THE ENTIRE
BODY, THAT THE CONTRACT WAS
TERMINATED AT THE BEHEST OF WHO
THE ADMINISTRATOR POLICY AGENDA
COMMITTEE WHO CERTAINLY NOT US
NOW IF WE NOT US AS A BODY NOW
IF WE APPROVE THIS TONIGHT, I
SUPPOSE THAT YOU CAN SPLIT
HAIRS AND SAY THAT&apos;S THE SAME
AS SAYING WE WANT A NEW PERSON
INSTEAD OF THE OLD PERSON BUT
THE OLD PERSON&apos;S ALREADY GONE.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE A LOBBYIST RIGHT
NOW.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT&apos;S A BIG DEAL
BUT I JUST FIND THE WHOLE THING
A LITTLE ODD.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT ALL OF COUNSEL
SHOULD BE ASKED FOR INPUT ON
THESE MATTERS.
&gt;&gt; IT MEANS A LOT TO EVEN WHEN
WE ALL WE ARE ALL ARE ASKED TO
APPROVE AND WE ARE ALLOWED TO
AMEND THE TABLE.
&gt;&gt; THE POLICY AGENDA FOR THAT
YEAR IS A FORMER SEAT ON THAT
COMMITTEE.
I CERTAINLY HAD MY INPUT INTO
THAT AND I WAS HAPPY WHEN
OTHERS AT THE TABLE WOULD, YOU
KNOW, MODIFY IT BEFORE
APPROVING.
BUT I DON&apos;T RECALL DOING THAT
IN THIS CASE.
I DON&apos;T RECALL SAYING HEY,
LET&apos;S GET RID LET&apos;S GET RID
OF ONE FIRM AND PICK A NEW ONE
AND YOU KNOW THE FACT THAT THE
POLICY AGENDA SPEAKS TO STATE
AND FEDERAL LOBBYING OR STATE
AND FEDERAL EFFORTS WELL
OF COURSE IT DOES.
WE ALL KNOW THAT THESE THE
LEGISLATION FLOWS DOWNHILL.
SO IF WE GOT TO SPEND ANOTHER
SIXTY THOUSAND A YEAR WELL
45000 A YEAR.
SIXTY FOUR SIXTY ONE HUNDRED
TWENTY FOR THIS NEW PERSON SO
THAT WE CAN REACH FOR FEDERAL
DOLLARS THAT WE MAY OR MAY NOT
NEED WELL SO BE IT I ASSUME THE
MAJORITY WILL SUPPORT THIS BUT
I I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T COUNCIL GRANT
THANK YOU.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT&apos;S OUR ARE
FOR HER EXPLANATION OF THE
BACKGROUND.
I&apos;M NOT A MEMBER OF THAT
COMMITTEE SO IT WAS REALLY
HELPFUL HAVING NOT BEEN PART
OF THOSE CONVERSATIONS.
HEAR HOW OUR COLLEAGUES WERE
WORKING TO MAKE SOME PRETTY
DIFFICULT BUT IMPORTANT
DECISIONS FOR THE CITY CHANGES
HARD BUT YOU KNOW, WE AS AN
ELEVEN MEMBER BODY CAN&apos;T BE
WORKING ON EVERY ISSUE AND
THAT&apos;S WHY WE HAVE YOU KNOW,
HOPEFULLY HAVE SOME SOME TRUST
IN OUR COLLEAGUES AND THEN HAVE
THE FINAL SAY AT THE TABLE.
BUT WE DO HAVE STUFF THAT THAT
MAKE DECISIONS ABOUT BRINGING
FORWARD ALL KINDS OF CONTRACTS
AND THEN WE VOTE ON THEM AS A
COUNCIL.
THAT&apos;S THE PROCESS THAT, YOU
KNOW, WE NORMALLY FOLLOW AND
THIS ISN&apos;T ANYTHING DIFFERENT.
BUT I DO THINK THAT STAFF AND
THERE&apos;S A PRETTY EXTENSIVE
DISCUSSION OF THE PROCESS BOTH
IN THE MAIN PACKET AS WELL AS
IN THE COUNCIL RESPONSE
QUESTIONS YOU CAN SEE WHAT THE
PRESENTATIONS WERE FROM THE
DIFFERENT GROUPS AND I DID TAKE
TIME AND LOOK AT PROPOSALS AND
UNDERSTOOD AFTER REVIEWING THEM
WHY THE COMMITTEE MADE THE
DECISION THAT THEY DID.
I THINK THAT THIS DOES PLACE US
IN A STRONGER POSITION TO BOTH
LOBBY AT THE STATE AND FEDERAL
LEVEL AND MR HONY HAS MADE SOME
EXCELLENT ARGUMENTS IN TERMS
OF WHY WE REALLY NEED TO PIVOT
TOWARDS DOING BOTH BECAUSE
WE&apos;RE LOOKING HOPEFULLY MAJOR
FEDERAL DOLLARS THAT I DO
BELIEVE THAT PEOPLE IN OUR
COMMUNITY REALLY CAN BENEFIT
FROM.
WE HAVE MAJOR SOCIAL SERVICE
NEEDS AND MAJOR INFRASTRUCTURE
NEEDS AND MAKING A SMALL
INVESTMENT IN A LOBBYIST THAT
UNDERSTANDS THOSE PROCESSES I
BELIEVE WILL BENEFIT FOR
RESIDENTS FOR YEARS TO COME.
&gt;&gt; REMEMBER DENHA THANK YOU,
MR. MAYOR.
I YOU KNOW, I WANT TO ECHO I
THINK SOME OF WHAT MY
COLLEAGUES HAVE SAID ABOUT THE
PROCESS HERE.
I THINK JUST TO CLARIFY ONE,
THIS IS NOT A THIS WAS NOT A
CANCELATION OF A CONTRACT.
A CONTRACT EXPIRED AND
WE
NEEDED TO EITHER RESIGN OR
CONTRACT WITH OUR EXISTING
LOBBYIST OR OR HIRE A NEW
LOBBYIST WHEN WE DID APPROVE
LAST YEAR END OF THE MONTH TO
MONTH PROCESS I BELIEVE THERE
WAS SOME DISCUSSION AT THIS
TABLE ABOUT ABOUT GOING BACK
AND REBUILDING THIS.
SO IT SHOULDN&apos;T I DON&apos;T BELIEVE
BE THAT MUCH OF A SURPRISE THAT
THIS PROCESS WAS HAPPENING.
BUT I ALSO I MEAN THIS WAS A
THIS WAS A PROCESS THAT I
STRUGGLED WITH AS WELL.
I VALUE THE FACT THAT
PARTICULARLY IN A LOBBYIST
RELATIONSHIPS AN ONGOING
UNDERSTANDING OF THE COMMUNITY
AND THINGS LIKE THAT ARE
IMPORTANT.
AND SO THE RELATIONSHIP IS
SOMETHING THAT I STRUGGLED WITH
AS WELL WHEN WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT THIS IN THE POLICY
COMMITTEE AND I I DON&apos;T WANT TO
PUT STAFF ON THE SPOT TOO MUCH
BUT I KNOW THAT IT WAS A TOPIC
OF DISCUSSION AND SO I DON&apos;T
KNOW IF MR DE HONI OR MR
FOURNIER WOULD BE INTERESTED IN
KIND OF REITERATING IT HELPED
ME IN UNDERSTANDING KIND OF THE
IMPORTANCE OF NOT ALLOWING A
LONG STANDING RELATIONSHIP TO
JEOPARDIZE THE INTEGRITY OF A
BIDDING PROCESS.
AND SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THERE&apos;S
ANYTHING ELSE YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD
TO THAT.
I KNOW THAT IT WAS HELPFUL IN
IN KIND OF ME SEPARATING FROM
THAT THAT ASPECT AS WELL AS
THERE IS ON ZOOME AS WELL AS
PART OF THE DISCUSSION THAT
COUNCILMAN DENHA IS RAISING AND
MR FOURNIER IS ON THE LINE AS
WELL.
BUT I REMEMBER DURING THE
DISCUSSION MAKING THE POINT
THAT IN A FAIR BIDDING PROCESS
PROVIDING POINTS FOR THE FACT
THAT YOU&apos;RE THE CURRENT
PROVIDER OR YOU HAVE A LONGER
STANDING RELATIONSHIP IS NOT
PROVIDING AN EQUAL PLAYING
FIELD FOR PEOPLE TO BID ON OUR
WORK.
THE STRUCTURE OF HOW OUR
PROCUREMENT PROCESS HAPPENS
NEEDS TO BE AVAILABLE INVITING
TO ANYONE IN THE MARKETPLACE
THAT WANTS TO PARTICIPATE.
THE LAST THING THAT I&apos;LL
MENTION AND CERTAINLY I RESPECT
ALL THE PERSPECTIVES THAT I&apos;M
HEARING AND I WASN&apos;T HERE FOR
SOME OF THE DISCUSSIONS THAT
HAVE BEEN CITED BUT FOR MY PART
I WAS VERY TRANSPARENT WITH THE
ENTIRE BODY GOING BACK TO THE
EVENING OF DECEMBER 13TH WHEN I
LAID OUT THE FOUR PILLARS UPON
WHICH THE BUDGET WOULD BE BUILT
AND IN DOING SO I CITED THAT WE
DID NOT HAVE A FEDERAL LOBBYIST
AND WE NEEDED ONE AND I MADE
THE BUSINESS CASE FOR WHY
THAT&apos;S NECESSARY IN MY
PROFESSIONAL OPINION.
I&apos;VE BEEN CONSISTENT IN SAYING
THAT SINCE DECEMBER AND NOW
THAT WE ARE ON THE PRECIPICE
OF COMPETING FOR FEDERAL
DOLLARS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE AND
OTHER THINGS, I STILL HAVE THE
SAME POSITION THAT WE NEED
FEDERAL LOBBYING ASSISTANCE NOT
SIMPLY RELYING ON CONGRESSWOMAN
DINGELL OR OTHERS TO DO OUR
WORK FOR US.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT TALKING ABOUT ANY
PARTICULAR PROVIDE OR OF THE
SERVICES THAT WE NEED AT THAT
SERVICE IN ORDER TO BE MORE
COMPETITIVE AND AS OUR BUDGET
PROCEEDS AND IS PRESENTED TO
YOU IN APRIL, OUR POSITION
REMAINS THE SAME.
WE NEED THOSE SERVICES AND
THERE IS AN INTERCON ACTIVITY
BETWEEN STATE AND FEDERAL
LOBBYING AND SO BEING ABLE TO
GET A PROVIDER THAT CAN DO THAT
FOR US WOULD BE HELPFUL IN OUR
VIEW.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE&apos;S I
THINK MUCH OF WHAT I&apos;VE WANTED
TO SAY HAS BEEN SAID BUT I
GUESS I&apos;D JUST LIKE TO
REITERATE THAT THERE&apos;S THIS IS
AN APPROPRIATE PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN WE ARE WE ARE
DECIDING TONIGHT WHETHER OR NOT
TO APPROVE THIS CONTRACT OR
NOT.
THE NO DECISION HAS BEEN MADE.
WE ARE MAKING THAT DECISION
TONIGHT.
IT IS APPROPRIATE THAT WE AS A
BODY DELEGATE TO DIFFERENT
COUNCIL COMMISSIONS, THE WORK
OF WORK THE BODY AND SERVING ON
POLICY COMMITTEE.
THIS WAS IT IS APPROPRIATE THAT
WE PUT OUT TO BID OUR CONTRACTS
AND GET RESPONSES.
IT&apos;S BEEN 20 YEARS YOU KNOW I
HAD NO FEELINGS GOING ONE WAY
OR THE OTHER ABOUT WHAT THE
OUTCOME OF THIS WOULD BE.
&gt;&gt; AND ACTUALLY I THINK ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WAS
BENEFICIAL ABOUT THE PROCESS IS
THAT BECAUSE COUNCIL MEMBERS
ACTUALLY DO HAVE DIFFERENT
RELATIONSHIPS WITH DIFFERENT
LOBBYISTS, WE REALLY AS A
COMMITTEE HONORED THE
RECOMMENDATION OF THE STAFF
PROCUREMENT PROCESS AND SO
ALLOWING THAT SCORING CRITERIA
TO HAPPEN AND YOU CAN SEE THAT
IN OUR PACKET IS TO KIND OF YOU
KNOW WHY CERTAIN FIRMS SCORED
HIGHER THAN OTHERS AND THAT
THAT&apos;S THE RECOMMENDATION
THAT&apos;S IN FRONT OF YOU TONIGHT
JUST LIKE IT WAS IN FRONT
OF POLICY COMMITTEE RECENTLY.
SO I&apos;M CERTAINLY SUPPORTIVE
OF MOVING THIS FORWARD.
I&apos;M EXCITED TO MOVE FORWARD AS
BOTH A STATE AND FEDERAL
LOBBYIST AND THANKS TO CALCIUM
FROM LOEWY.
THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THE CONVERSATION
ON THIS TOPIC.
HUM.
I GUESS ALL I CAN SAY IS THAT
THERE NEEDS TO BE MORE
COMMUNICATION.
I DID HEAR THE WORDS BACK IN
DECEMBER ABOUT THE NEED FOR A
FEDERAL LOBBYIST.
I&apos;M IN SUPPORT OF THAT.
IT&apos;S PENNIES ON THE DOLLAR
INVESTMENT WISE BUT QUITE
FRANKLY I REPEAT IT MANY OF US
DON&apos;T HAVE THE ACCESS THAT MANY
OTHERS HAVE HERE.
UH, I THINK COMMUNICATION IS IT
IS HELPFUL SO WE BETTER
UNDERSTAND THESE THINGS AND
FEEL A PART OF THE TEAM
KEANSBURG, OSWAL.
BUT I WANT TO THANK STAFF THIS
WAS A VERY TIME CONSUMING
PROCESS.
I THINK THAT IT WAS AN
EXCELLENT PROCESS UP UNTIL OUR
OUR LAST POLICY AGENDA MEETING
AND THEN THINGS WENT SOMEWHAT I
GUESS IT WAS JUST UNCOMFORTABLE
.
AND SO WHEN WE CONSIDER LESSONS
LEARNED AND LOOKING AT
PROCESSES AND WAYS FOR IMPROVED
,I REALLY STRUGGLE WITH
WHETHER I CAN APPROVE THIS
GIVEN THAT IT WASN&apos;T AN OPTIMAL
PROCESS AND THAT HAS NOTHING TO
DO WITH STAFF STAFF EXCEEDED
ALL EXPECTATIONS.
THEY WENT OUT OF THEIR WAY.
IT WAS A VERY YOU KNOW, VALID
TRANSPARENT PROCESS IN TERMS
OF THE BIDDING.
&gt;&gt; SO AGAIN, THANK YOU TO SAY
STAFF FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MUSONG I&apos;M ON THIS
COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; I WAS REALLY PLEASED IF IF
FOLKS TAKE A LOOK AT THE
MINUTES FROM OUR COMMITTEE AND
LOOK AT THE MEMO THAT WAS
PRESENTED OUR LAST COMMITTEE
MEETING.
IT GOES THROUGH A PROCESS WHERE
STAFF HAD IMPANELED A GROUP TO
GO THROUGH THE ENTIRE RFP
PROCESS THAT INCLUDED FOLKS
LIKE JOHN FOURNIER, ASSISTANT
CITY ADMINISTRATOR SARAH
HIGGINS, MIKE PETTIGREW, MISSY
STULTZ, TIM WILHELM AND THESE
ARE THE FOLKS THAT WE ENTRUSTED
TO MEET MULTIPLE TIMES
REVIEWING THE RFP INTERVIEWS
WITH THE APPLICANTS WERE ON
FEBRUARY 10TH, FEBRUARY 16TH
AND FEBRUARY 17TH.
THIS WAS SCORED THE SCORES WERE
SHARED WITH OUR OUR COMMITTEE
AND IT WAS PRESENTED FAIRLY
WITHOUT ANY INDICATION
OF PREFERENCE TO OR TO OUR TO
THE COMMISSIONERS TO TO THE
MEMBERS OF THIS COMMISSION.
WE VOTED UNANIMOUSLY TO MOVE
THIS TO A MEETING TONIGHT AND
PUT IT ON THE AGENDA.
SO IF THERE WAS CONFUSION THEN
I WOULD THINK THAT WOULD HAVE
BEEN CLEARED BY TODAY AND I&apos;M
GLAD TO SEE THAT WE HAVE A FIRM
WITH IMPECCABLE REPUTATION
THAT&apos;S WILLING TO WORK WITH THE
CITY OF HALABJA TO ADVOCATE FOR
OUR NEEDS, OUR ONGOING NEEDS
FOR STATE AND FEDERAL DOLLARS.
&gt;&gt; STATE DOLLARS ARE HARD TO
COME BY.
WE HAVE NOT DONE HEADLY OVERATE
AND I THINK THAT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO
REMEMBER THAT IF WE CAN CHASE
DOWN THESE DOLLARS FOR A CITY
THAT WE SHOULD CHASE DOWN THESE
DOLLARS AND WE SHOULD WORK WITH
THE FOLKS WHO ARE MOST CAPABLE
OF DOING THAT, THERE IS NO
THERE WAS NO SCORING FOR
LOYALTY WHEN WE WHEN WE PUT
THESE THINGS OUT TO BID.
SO I APPRECIATE THE WORK AND I
HOPE THAT WE CAN PUT TO PUT
THIS TO A VOTE AND OUR
COMMISSION CAN WORK ON OTHER
ISSUES FURTHER DISCUSSION ROLL
TO ROLL CALL VOTE PLEASE START
AT COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS NO
BREAK YES.
CAST MEMBER ON MAUI YES HOSMER
HAYNER NO ELSMORE DISH YES.
&gt;&gt; FALLSBURG ROSEWALL YES.
CUSTOMER SONG YES
COUNTERPROGRAM.
YES THAT&apos;S MY DENHA YES.
RETAILOR YES CALLS IYER YES
HALSMAN ALSO NO MOTION CARRIES
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF MARCH SEVEN TWENTY TWENTY
TWO MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THESE MINUTES MOVE BY
KALTENBRUNNER I BY KINSINGER
DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE OF A ONE
MINUTES O FAVOR POSED THESE
MINUTES ARE APPROVED C ONE
TO
AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF POINT FIVE ACRES
FROM TI TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO
R-1 BE SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICT
WILSON BERRY PROPERTY SIX ONE
FOUR RIVERVIEW DRIVE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER GRISWOLD
SECONDED BY COUNTY MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE ON
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED DC
ONE RESOLUTION APPROVED CHERISH
SMITH TO THE ENERGY COMMISSION
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGGS
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE ON
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THUS SATISFYING THE SEVEN VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC TWO RESOLUTION
TO ENDORSE THE PROTECTING
COMMUNITY TELEVISION ACT MOVE
BY COUNCIL SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC TO OR IN FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED C THREE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
HIRING OF MILTON DOWNEY JR. AS
CITY ADMINISTRATOR WHO BY
COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
WE HAVE MOUSEL ON THE LINE AS
YES WE DO OUR MOVING HER OVER
TO A PANELISTS NOW THANK YOU
GOOD EVENING.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING.
IT&apos;S MY UNDERSTANDING JUST BY
MYSELF THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US.
BY WAY OF BACKGROUND MARCELLUS
THEY CONSULTED WITH WHOM WE
WORK WITH FREQUENCY ON
EVALUATION AND AND SEARCH IT IS
WE HAVE STAFF INTRODUCTIONS
WHICH I OFTEN FORGET AND I&apos;M
NOT REMINDED TO INCLUDE IT NOW
I HAVE BEEN SO AND I&apos;M GRATEFUL
FOR THE REMINDER MYSELF MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT A FEW
QUESTIONS CAME STAFFS AWAY
AFTER THE APPOINTED TIME AND
THAT YOU&apos;RE IN A POSITION TO
ANSWER THEM.
&gt;&gt; SO IF YOU WOULD MISS YOU
HAVE THE FLOOR RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; WELL THANK YOU SO MUCH BY BY
WAY OF INTRODUCTION I JUST WANT
TO LET YOU KNOW WHAT I WANT TO
PROVIDE SUMMARY THAT I PROVIDED
TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE
RECENTLY AT THE REQUEST OF THE
ADMIN COMMITTEE I CONDUCTED A
THREE HUNDRED 60 DEGREE
FEEDBACK EXERCISE FOR INTERIM
CITY ADMINISTRATOR ON THE HONI
I SURVEYED ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS, SEVENTEEN KEY STAFF
AND PROVIDED ALL EMPLOYEES WITH
AN OPPORTUNITY TO PROVIDE
FEEDBACK.
WE RECEIVED AN EXCELLENT
RESPONSE RATE FROM TEN OF THE
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS FIFTEEN
SEVENTEEN STAFF AND NINETY NINE
EMPLOYEES.
I SUMMARIZE THE FEEDBACK AND
PROVIDED IT TO MR. DE HONI WHO
THEN PROVIDED ME WITH A
RESPONSE THAT I INCLUDED IN THE
DOCUMENTATION.
FEEDBACK HAS BEEN
OVERWHELMINGLY POSITIVE AND IN
A SHORT PERIOD OF TIME MR. TONY
HAS PROVIDED A CALM AND
STABILIZED ENVIRONMENT THAT
STRESSES INCLUSION AND RESPECT
MR. DOWNEY&apos;S EXTENSIVE
EXPERIENCE NATURAL LEADERSHIP
AND COMMUNICATION STYLE IS MUCH
APPRECIATED BY MANY COUNCIL AND
STAFF MEMBERS AND IT HAS BEEN
REQUESTED BY MANY RESPONDENTS
THAT HE BECOME THE PERMANENT
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
AT THIS POINT I&apos;M ALSO NOT
RECOMMENDING A NATIONAL SEARCH
AND IN PART BECAUSE WHEN THERE
IS SUCH A STRONG INTERNAL
CANDIDATE IT IS EXTREMELY
DIFFICULT TO ATTRACT GOOD
CANDIDATES AND THIS IS FROM MY
EXPERIENCE DOING ABOUT FIFTEEN
OTHER TOP LEVEL ADMINISTRATIVE
SEARCHES ALSO TO PROVIDE THE
CONTINUITY THAT HE HAS AND
LEADERSHIP HE HAS PROVIDED I
THINK WOULD SERVE THE CITY WELL
AND AT THIS POINT I&apos;M HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THAT
INTRODUCTION.
WE&apos;LL INCLUDE YOU HERE IN THE
UN STAFF TO BE CALLED DENHA IN
THE IN THE ORDINARY COURSE.
&gt;&gt; SO I APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
TICKING TICKING MY SPEAKING
TERM I ABSOLUTELY DELIGHTED
THAT THIS IS IS ON OUR AGENDA
THIS EVENING.
&gt;&gt; AS FOLKS KNOW, MR. DUNCAN
WAS HIRED AS OUR INTERIM CITY
ADMINISTRATOR FOR A NUMBER
OF MONTHS AND THAT NUMBER
OF MONTHS HAS NOT YET PASSED.
HOWEVER, IT IS PLAIN AND
OBVIOUS TO ME A COUPLE
OF THINGS FIRST AND FOREMOST,
PLAIN AND OBVIOUS THAT MR. TONY
IS A AS A GENTLEMAN OF THE
GENTLEMAN HE IS A PERSON
OF GREAT CHARACTER, INTELLECT,
INTEGRITY AND VAST LEADERSHIP
EXPERIENCE.
&gt;&gt; HE IS PLAINLY AN OBVIOUSLY
AN OUTSTAND CITY ADMINISTRATOR
AND WE ARE INCREDIBLY FORTUNATE
TO HAVE HIM HERE WORKING WITH
THIS COUNCIL THIS STAFF IN THIS
COMMUNITY TO MAKE ANN ARBOR THE
HOME WE ALL WE ALL WISH IT TO
BE.
I UNDERSTAND YOU OF COURSE THAT
WE HAVE STAFFING CHALLENGES
THAT WE HAVE FOLKS WHO ARE IN
NEED OF HIRING AT THE AT THE
SENIOR LEVEL AND NOTHING WOULD
I THINK IMPROVE OUR CHANCES
OF HIRING PEOPLE WHO ARE
EXCELLENT AND SERVE THE CITY
FOR FOR A LONG AND
DISTINGUISHED SERVICE THEN THEN
HAVING A PERMANENT
ADMINISTRATOR.
IT IS DIFFICULT TO HIRE IN THE
EVENT THAT IN THE EVENT
OF UNCERTAINTY AT THE TOP WHEN
FACED WITH THE NEED TO HIRE NEW
FOLKS.
I&apos;M THINKING OF PARTICULARITY
IN H.R. AND PUBLIC SERVICES.
IT&apos;S GOOD AND PROPER TO HAVE A
PERMANENT ADMINISTRATOR AND
LIKE I SAID FROM THE OUTSET, WE
ARE INCREDIBLY FORTUNATE TO
HAVE MR. TONY HERE WHO EXHIBITS
EVERY SINGLE OF THE QUALITIES
THAT WE COULD POSSIBLY HOPE FOR
IN SUCH AN ADMINISTRATOR.
I BELIEVE WE SHOULD WE SHOULD
WE SHOULD RUN RUN TO THE
SIGNATURE SIGNING FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
GRISWOLD.
YES.
WHILE THE INTERVIEW PROCESS TO
MAKE MR. DONEE A REGULAR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR MAY HAVE BEEN
SOMEWHAT LIGHT, WE ALSO HAD AN
EXTENSIVE SEARCH FOR AN INTERIM
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND MYSELF.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU WANT TO JUST QUICKLY
SUMMARIZE THAT AND IT IT
DEFINITELY WAS NOT A
SUPERFICIAL SEARCH IN ANY WAY?
NO, NOT AT ALL.
I WOULD HAVE TO SAY THAT I
PROVIDED SOME CANDIDATES AS
WELL AS STEVEN POSTMA WAS
HEAVILY INVOLVED IN ACTIVELY
RECRUITING TOP NOTCH CANDIDATES
FOR THAT OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY.
&gt;&gt; OH OK.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; AND I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT
WE HAD A LIST OF CANDIDATE AND
I WAS VERY FORCEFUL IN SAYING
THE NONE OF THESE CANDIDATES
ARE ADEQUATE AND REALLY PUSHED
STEPHEN POSTMA AND I WOULD SAY
THIS IS PROBABLY BY FAR THE
BEST WORKING RELATIONSHIP
STEPHEN AND I HAD I THOUGHT WE
WORKED REALLY WELL TOGETHER AND
WE FOUND AN EXCELLENT CANDIDATE
WHO&apos;S EXCEEDED OUR EXPECTATIONS
.
AND I WHEN I TALKED TO STEVEN I
SAID THINGS LIKE WE NEED
SOMEONE WHO&apos;S OVERQUALIFIED.
WE NEED SOMEONE WHO CAN COME IN
AND RIGHT THE SHIP.
WE NEED SOMEONE WHO HAS
EXCELLENT LEADERSHIP SKILLS.
WE DON&apos;T WANT A MANAGER.
WE WANT A LEADER.
AND MR. HONI IS ALL OF THOSE
THINGS.
AND SO I ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO
SUPPORT THIS RESOLUTION TONIGHT
FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER AMAWI THANK CHAIR AND
MUCH OF THE EXCITEMENT AND
APPRECIATION THAT HAS BEEN
EXPRESSED OF HAVING MR. DE HONY
HERE IN THIS ORGANIZATION IS NO
DOUBT HELPED STABILIZE WHAT WAS
A VERY UNSTABLE SITUATION IN MY
COMMENTS DO NOT DISCREDIT THE
EFFECTS THAT HE HAS ON THIS
ORGANIZATION.
I ALLUDED TO THIS EARLIER AS TO
HAVING THINGS COME TO US WITH
NOT A FULL ENGAGEMENT, THE LACK
OF COMMUNICATION WITH THE
COMPLETE BOARD AND HERE WE HAVE
A SITUATION WHERE WE WERE ASKED
TO FILL OUT A SURVEY TO GIVE
MR. DONEE AND OTHERS AN
UNDERSTANDING OF HIS EFFECTS.
WHEN I FILLED OUT THAT SURVEY I
DID NOT THINK I WAS FILLING OUT
THE SAME TYPE OF DOCUMENT OR
FORM THAT I WOULD FILL OUT IF
SOMEONE WERE TO ASK ME WHAT AM
I LOOKING FOR IN A CITY
ADMINISTRATOR?
AND I WILL JUST ASK MYSELF HERE
THE EVALUATION YOU GAVE US FORM
THE QUESTIONS IS THAT THE SAME
TYPE OF FORUM AND QUESTIONS
THAT YOU WOULD GIVE IN THE
EVENT WE WERE TO START A
NATIONAL SEARCH AND HIRE A FULL
TIME CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
WE WE ARE ASKING THE SAME TYPES
OF QUESTIONS IS WAS THE INTENT
I DO NOT BELIEVE WHEN I FILL
THAT OUT I THOUGHT WHAT I WAS
DOING AT MOMENT BUT PERHAPS
THEY&apos;RE SYNONYMOUS.
THE PROCESSES ARE GENERALLY
VERY DIFFERENT OR AND THE
QUESTIONS WOULD BE DIFFERENT
WHEN INTERVIEWING A CANDIDATE
FOR A NEW POSITION I TRY TO
DEVELOP QUESTIONS THAT ARE
BASED ON THE HIRING CRITERIA IN
THIS CASE I WAS ASKED TO GET
FEEDBACK ON THE PERFORMANCE
OF MR. DE HONI SO I DID FOCUS
ON EXPERIENCES AS OPPOSED TO IN
AN INTERVIEW WHAT I WOULD BE
LOOKING AT DIFFERENT CRITERIA.
I APPRECIATE THAT AND I
APPRECIATE THE HONESTY AND THE
CANDOR
.
I JUST DON&apos;T HAVE ENOUGH TIME
WITH MY FIRST SPEAKING TIME ON
THIS I&apos;LL PROBABLY BE CUT OFF
AT SOME POINT BUT THE
EVALUATION ITSELF AND THE
FEEDBACK THAT WE GOT WAS RATHER
INCOMPLETE WASN&apos;T DEEP ON
COMMENTS BY EXECUTIVE STAFF.
I HERE UNDER ONE HUNDRED CITY
EMPLOYEES RESPONDED TO IT AND
MANY COUNCIL MEMBERS EXPRESSED
THAT THEY HAD NOT WORKED LONG
ENOUGH WITH MR. DHONI TO FULLY
ANSWER THOSE QUESTIONS IN AN
ADEQUATE OR RESPONSIBLE WAY.
BUT YET WE ARE HERE TONIGHT TO
MAKE A VERY BIG DECISION.
THE NUMBER ONE CITY EMPLOYEE WE
HAVE COUNCIL MEMBER FURTHER
DISCUSSION MODERATOR THEY
ACCEPT US MAKE SOME GENERAL
REMARKS.
YOU KNOW WHAT LITTLE
INTERACTION I&apos;VE HAD WITH MR
DHONI HAS BEEN, YOU KNOW,
PERFECTLY SATISFACTORY.
HE APPEARS TO LISTEN CAREFULLY
AND CONSIDER THINGS THAT ARE
BEING ASKED IN AND DISCUSSED
WITH HIM.
I SPOKE TO HIM AGAIN LAST WEEK
AND WE TALKED BRIEFLY ABOUT THE
NOTION THAT HE WOULD NOT BE
AFRAID TO INSPECT DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS AND TAX ABATEMENT
AGREEMENTS AND CLAW BACK FUNDS
IF THOSE TERMS OF THOSE
AGREEMENTS ARE NOT MET.
AND I THINK THAT&apos;S KIND
OF IMPORTANT EVEN AS WE LIKE WE
LOOK AHEAD TO DC FIVE IS AN
EXAMPLE.
YOU KNOW, WHEN WE GIFT
DEVELOPERS IN VARIOUS WAYS AND
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT WE&apos;RE
GETTING WE&apos;RE GETTING THE MOST
FOR THAT GIFT.
AND I THINK THE FACT THAT HE&apos;S
HAD EXPERIENCE DOING THAT IN
OTHER CITIES AND HAS VOWED TO
DO IT HERE IF NECESSARY IS
SOMETHING THAT MEANS A LOT TO
ME.
I DIDN&apos;T VOTING ON THE
SITUATION HERE HE HAS SOME TIME
LEFT IN HIS 11 MONTH CONTRACT.
I&apos;M NOT IF I&apos;M NOT MISTAKEN AND
YET HERE WE ARE.
SO THIS IS ANOTHER IT&apos;S ANOTHER
THING THAT&apos;S COME BUBBLING UP
OUT OF A COMMITTEE OF THE FEW
OF A MINORITY, NOT THE FEW BUT
OBVIOUSLY YOU CAN&apos;T HAVE A
QUORUM IN A COMMITTEE.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, HERE WE ARE
ONCE AGAIN AND THIS IS WHERE IT
FALLS FOR US AND FOR THOSE
OF YOU WHO SUGGEST THAT WE
SHOULD JUST ALL PLACE OUR GREAT
TRUST IN THESE SMALL
SUBSECTIONS OF OUR BODY HERE I
ASK YOU TO PUT ON YOUR EMPATHY
HAT FOR A MINUTE AND CONSIDER
WHAT LITTLE TRUST MIGHT BE HELD
BY SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN
EXCLUDED FROM ALL OF THOSE
GROUPS.
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN RAHMI.
&gt;&gt; WELL, THANK YOU.
UNFORTUNATELY WE HAVE TWO
MINUTES TO SPEAK.
I FEEL THAT THE PUBLIC PROCESS
IN THIS HAS BEEN ABSENT OR HAS
BEEN NO PUBLIC INPUT.
WE HAVE NOT ADOPTED OUR BUDGET.
WE HAVEN&apos;T DISCUSSED WE&apos;RE
GOING TO SPEND THE FUNDING FOR
THE FUNDING FOR OUR I FEEL THIS
IS A RUSHED DECISION AS MY
COLLEAGUE JUST STATED, WE ARE
LESS THAN HALFWAY IN THE ELEVEN
POINT CONTRACT BUT YET WE&apos;RE
ASKED TONIGHT TO MAKE A VERY
BIG DECISION, A DECISION WHICH
THIS BODY HAS STRUGGLED WITH
MAKING BEFORE.
I SIMPLY ASK THAT WE DO THIS
THE RIGHT WAY AND GIVE MR. TONY
THE CREDIBILITY HE DESERVES AND
HAVE A FULL ROBUST ENGAGEMENT
WITH STAFF.
ASK THE QUESTIONS TO CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS THAT SHOULD BE
ASKED WHEN WE&apos;RE HIRING
SOMEBODY AND NOT JUST DOING A
PERFORMANCE REVIEW.
THEREFORE I ASK THAT THIS BE
POSTPONED UNTIL WE CAN DO THE
WORK THAT I JUST DESCRIBED SO
WE CAN MAKE AN INFORMED
DECISION.
&gt;&gt; SO TO WHAT DATE WOULD YOU
LIKE THAT?
&gt;&gt; I KNOW THE BUDGET IS COMING
UP AND I&apos;M NOT SURE IF IT&apos;S
GOING TO BE AMENABLE BUT I
WOULD ASK AMY SELDA TO TO TELL
US HOW MUCH TIME IT WOULD TAKE
TO PUT TOGETHER A QUESTIONNAIRE
AND GET IT SO THAT IT&apos;S FOR
THIS TYPE OF PURPOSE AND THAT
AND WITH BUDGET I DON&apos;T KNOW IF
JUNE 6TH IS TOO LATE JUNE SIX
IS THERE A SECOND FOR A BUDGET
POSTPONED TO JUNE SIX SO I CAN
BY COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER
DISCUSSION ON THE POSTPONEMENT
AND I WOULD ASK MYSELF HOW MUCH
TIME SHE WOULD NEED TO PUT
TOGETHER AND GATHER THE
INFORMATION THAT WOULD BE DONE
IN AN ORDINARY FAIR HIRING
PRACTICE AND ASK THE QUESTIONS
AND PUT THEM TOGETHER.
&gt;&gt; SO WE ARE MAKING A DECISION
AGAIN BASED ON ANSWERS
QUESTIONS THAT ARE FOR THAT
PURPOSE
TO RESPOND TO THAT IF
YOU PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
UH, WHAT I MIGHT SUGGEST THAT
WOULD BE MORE CUSTOMARY OF AN
INTERVIEW PROCESS WOULD BE TO
INSTEAD OF A CERTAIN TO DO A
FEW THINGS ONE ALLOW MORE
INTERVIEWS WITH OR ALLOW
INTERVIEWS WITH STAFF MEMBERS
AND MR. DE HONY AND THEN PUT
TOGETHER A TYPE OF PRESENTATION
THAT COULD BE VIEWABLE BY ALL
AND ALL COULD THEN HAVE MORE
BASIS OF INPUT TO PROVIDE
INFORMATION AND A MEET AND
GREET OF SOME TYPE COULD BE
DONE.
SO I THINK A FEW OF THOSE
ELEMENTS MIGHT GET TO THE TYPES
OF ACTIVITIES THAT WOULD BE
MORE CUSTOMARY DURING AN
INTERVIEW AND PROVIDE MORE
ENGAGEMENT OPPORTUNITY FOR
STAFF.
SO I WANTED TO MENTION THAT
THOSE OPTIONS SHOULD BE OR
COULD BE CONSIDERED AND THAT A
TIMEFRAME TO DO THESE
ACTIVITIES WOULD PROBABLY BE
BETWEEN FIVE AND SEVEN WEEKS.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I I&apos;M GOING TO BE VOTING
AGAINST THE POSTPONEMENT.
&gt;&gt; WE DON&apos;T NEED TO INTERVIEW A
GENTLEMAN THAT&apos;S BEEN WORKING
HERE WITH DISTINCTION FOR
MONTHS WHEN YOU YOU HAVE A ROCK
STAR, YOU HAND HIM THE GUITAR.
YOU KNOW WHEN YOU HAVE A
METAPHOR YOUR HAND WHEN YOU
HAVE A CITY ADMINISTRATOR
OF THE SKILL AND AN ABILITY AND
CHARACTER OF MR. TONY, YOUR
HAND ON THE CITY HE IS HE&apos;S A
BLESSING.
WE SHOULD ACKNOWLEDGE IT AND WE
SHOULD MOVE FORWARD.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
YOU SAID A COUPLE OF THE THINGS
THAT I WAS PLANNING TO SAY AND
YOU KNOW, I&apos;M ALSO GOING TO
OPPOSE POSTPONEMENT.
WE DID UNDERGO THIS PROCESS
WHEN WE HIRED MR. TONY AS
INTERIM.
WHAT WE HAVE SEEN SINCE THEN IS
HIM PERFORM AT OR SIGNIFICANTLY
ABOVE I THINK WHAT ANY OF US
EXPECTED IN AN INTERIM
ADMINISTRATOR.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, THE MAYOR HAS HAS
HAS SPOKEN ABOUT KIND OF THE
QUALIFICATIONS AND DISTINCTION
I AGREE WITH THE SENTIMENTS.
&gt;&gt; I YOU KNOW, I WOULD STRUGGLE
GOING INTO A PROCESS OR A
SEARCH IN WHICH WE WOULD BE
LOOKING FOR QUALITIES OR
EXPERIENCES OR QUALIFICATIONS
THAT MR. HONY DOESN&apos;T ALREADY
HAVE OR EXCLUDE.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I I ALSO WANT
TO CALL ATTENTION TO THE FACT
THAT THERE&apos;S BEEN A COUPLE
OF MENTIONS OF THE FACT THAT
THERE ARE THERE ARE A FEW
MONTHS LEFT OR MONTHS LEFT IN
THIS TEMPORARY CONTRACT BUT WE
WOULD NEED TO BEGIN A SEARCH
PROCESS BEFORE THAT CONTRACT
EXPIRES OR WE WOULD ONCE AGAIN
HAVE KIND OF ANOTHER ACTING OR
INTERIM ADMINISTRATOR AND EACH
WEEK OR MONTH THAT PASSES BY
WITHOUT US MAKING MR. TONY
PERMANENT, WE RISK LOSING HIM.
THIS ISN&apos;T A PERMANENT JOB
UNLESS WE MAKE IT ONE.
AND SO IF IF WE WERE TO TAKE
THAT RISK, IT&apos;S VERY WELL
POSSIBLE THAT OTHER CITIES THAT
SEE WHAT HE HAS ACCOMPLISHED
HERE, THE STABILITY THAT HE HAS
PROVIDED THE THAT THE RESPECT
THAT HE HAS GAINED FROM COUNCIL
AND FROM STAFF AND THEY MIGHT
COME IN AND SCOOP HIM UP FROM
US AND I&apos;M NOT INTERESTED IN
HAVING THAT HAPPEN.
I THINK HE HAS SERVED US
INCREDIBLY WELL AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO CONTINUING TO WORK
WITH HIM TO IMPROVE OUR CITY
COUNCIL BRIGS.
I AGREE.
I MEAN I I STRUGGLE TO TO KNOW
WHAT WE WOULD BE GAINING FROM
FROM POSTPONING THIS DECISION.
I MEAN I&apos;VE WE HAD EXCEPTIONAL
ENGAGEMENT FROM OUR SENIOR
STAFF LEADERS IN THAT SURVEY 88
PERCENT RESPONSE RATE 15 OUT
OF 17 COMPLETED THAT SURVEY HAS
MISAEL NOTED YOU KNOW, AGAIN
THE THEMES OF THAT WERE THAT HE
WAS HELPFUL, ENGAGED IN
ORGANIZED, FLEXIBLE, DECISIVE
LET&apos;S LISTEN AS WELL.
RESPONSIVE MAKES ADJUSTMENTS
BASED ON FEEDBACK FROM STAFF
SUPPORTS EMPLOYEES SUPPORTIVE
SUPPORT MILES.
INTEGRITY IS GOOD EVEN TEMPERED
AND GOOD NATURED.
HIS MARKS FROM FROM SENIOR
STAFF WERE ALL ABOVE FIVE THIS
IS THESE THESE ARE THE THEMES
THAT I WOULD EXPECT THIS IS
EXCEPTIONAL RESPONSE AFTER JUST
A COUPLE OF RELATIVELY SHORT
TIME OF WORKING WITH MR. TONY.
I MEAN I THINK WE YOU KNOW,
WE&apos;VE SEEN WE SAW NINETY NINE
STAFF MEMBERS IN ALL STAFF
SURVEY THAT RESPONDED TO THIS
SURVEY.
SIXTY TOOK THE TIME TO PROVIDE
COMMENTS IN OUR LAST CITY
ADMINISTRATOR SEARCH WE HAD
FIFTY ONE STAFF MEMBERS THAT
WERE RESPONDED TO ALL STAFF
SURVEY.
SO WE HAVE HIGHER STAFF
RESPONSE IN THIS PROCESS THAN
WE DID WHEN WE CONDUCTED A FULL
ADMINISTRATOR SEARCH LAST TIME.
YOU KNOW, THE REALITY IS IS WE
WE WERE LOOKING FOR AN INTERIM
INDIVIDUAL AND WHAT WE FOUND IS
SOMEBODY WHO IS HAS PERFORMED
IN A WAY THAT IS EXCEPTIONAL.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHY WE WOULDN&apos;T
ACT RAPIDLY TO SECURE THIS
PERSON AND KEEP MR. DE HONY
WITH US.
I&apos;M EXCITED THAT HE HAS IS HERE
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO TO
SECURING HIM AS OUR PERMANENT
ADMINISTRATOR COUNSEL BRITISH I
DON&apos;T SEE THE VALUE ADDED IN
THE PROCESS THAT MARCEL
OUTLINED AND THAT IS NO
REFLECTION ON YOU, MARCEL.
BUT WHEN MR. TACONY HAD BEEN
HERE FOR BARELY SEVEN WEEKS HE
OFFERED US A STUPENDOUS
PRESENTATION AT OUR ANNUAL
BUDGET MEETING WHERE HE
CREATIVELY SOLVED PROBLEMS THAT
JUST A FEW WEEKS EARLIER WE HAD
BEEN TOLD WERE UNSOLVABLE AND
WE JUST HAD TO RESIGN OURSELVES
THAT FEWER OF OUR ROADS WOULD
BE LESS WELL FIXED.
HE TURNED THAT RIGHT OVER WITH
A CREATIVE SOLUTION ABOUT
BONDING FOR ROAD FINANCING.
THERE HAVE BEEN MANY SUCH
MOMENTS I DON&apos;T NEED TO SEE ANY
MORE OF THEM.
I DON&apos;T NEED A MEET AND GREET
IS THEIR USUALLY I CAN MEET HIM
AND GREET HIM.
ALL WE WOULD GET FROM THIS IS A
DELAY AND EXPENSE TO THE CITY
AND AS COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
MENTIONED THE RISK OF LOSING A
VALUABLE AND LIKELY SOMEONE
WHOM WE COULDN&apos;T FIND ANYONE
NEARLY AS GOOD A LEADER
COUNCILOR RAMOGI THAN NELSON.
&gt;&gt; YES, I WILL NOT BE HERE TO
DISPUTE WHAT THE POSITIVE FACTS
MACEDONIA HAS PROVIDED US IN
THE ATTRIBUTES THAT HE HAS.
I AM SIMPLY ASKING FOR THE GOOD
GOVERNMENT TO BE PRACTICE DUE
PROCESS, FAIR HIRING PRACTICE
AND YOU KNOW I DON&apos;T UNDERSTAND
THE POINT OF THAT EVALUATION.
IF I WAS GOING TO BE USED FOR A
HIRING PROCESS, IF THAT WAS THE
CASE, WE SHOULD HAVE BEEN JUST
GIVEN SURVEYING QUESTIONS THAT
WOULD HAVE BEEN FOR THE HIRING.
SO I FIND MYSELF LYCEUS ITCHIN
BAIT HERE AND TO COMPARE THE
STAFF RESPONSES TO THIS
PERFORMANCE REVIEW TO THE
SEARCH FOR A CITY ADMINISTRATOR
AND THE RESPONSE AND THE
RESULTS YOU&apos;RE COMPARING APPLES
TO ORANGES.
I THINK THAT&apos;S NOT FAIR.
FOR EXAMPLE, JUST JUST PUSHING
BACK A LITTLE BIT HERE THAT THE
BONDING FOR ROADS GETS WHAT WE
TALKED ABOUT EIGHT YEARS AGO.
THE COUNCIL THEN SUPPORT IT WAS
SUPPORTED BY THE MAYOR AND
OTHERS.
SO THIS IS NOT A NEW IDEA.
THIS IS AN IDEA THAT HAS BEEN
KICKED AROUND FOR MANY YEARS.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT IT&apos;S ABOUT.
IT&apos;S GOING TONIGHT.
I JUST ASKED FOR A MORE ROBUST
INCLUSIVE PROCESS BUT THIS
COUNCIL SHOOT FIRST AND ASK
QUESTIONS LATER AND THAT&apos;S HOW
I GET IT.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON, THANK
YOU.
I APPRECIATE SUPPORT FOR MR. DE
HGNI AND THE INTERESTS
OF BRINGING STABILITY TO THE
CITY AND IN DEFERENCE TO THE
SIGNIFICANT EXPERIENCE THAT HE
BRINGS TO THE POSITION,
HOWEVER, I WOULD LIKE TO SHARE
A CALL TO ACTION DISTRIBUTED TO
THE COMMUNITY BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DASCH IN TWENTY TWENTY.
I&apos;M CONTACTING YOU TODAY TO LET
YOU KNOW THAT CITY COUNCIL IS
IN THE PROCESS OF HIRING OUR
NEXT CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND
URGE YOU TO SPEAK UP NOW BY
SENDING AN EMAIL TO COUNCIL IF
YOU WANT TO HAVE A VOICE IN
THIS FUTURE SHAPING DECISION
YESTERDAY FOUR FINALISTS FOR
THE POSITION CITY ADMINISTRATOR
INTERVIEWED WITH CITY COUNCIL
AND WITH TWO OTHER PANELS, ONE
MADE UP OF CITY STAFF AND THE
OTHER HAVE INVITED COMMUNITY
LEADERS INCLUDING ME AND THE
FOUR OTHER PRIMARY WINNERS
COUNCIL WILL DELIBERATE ON AND
LIKELY FINALIZE THE HIRE AT A
SPECIAL WORK SESSION THIS
COMING MONDAY AUGUST TWENTY
THIRD.
IF THAT SOUNDS QUICK TO YOU, IT
IS THIS PROCESS IS MOVING
FASTER THAN IS CUSTOMARY FOR A
HIRE OF SUCH IMPORTANCE TO THE
CITY&apos;S FUTURE.
MORE IMPORTANT RESIDENTS HAVE
HAD NO CHANCE TO INTERACT
DIRECTLY WITH CANDIDATES AT A
VIRTUAL TOWN HALL OR OTHER
PUBLIC FORUM AS HAS OCCURRED IN
EVERY OTHER HIRE OF SIMILAR
IMPORTANCE.
THIS CALL TO ACTION PROMPTED
RESIDENTS TO EMAIL COUNCIL WITH
THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS I AM
WRITING TO ASK THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL MAKES A BIGGER EFFORT
TO ENGAGE THE PUBLIC DURING THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR HIRING
PROCESS AND DESERVES A PROCESS
THAT IS NOT RUSHED SO WE GET
THE RIGHT PERSON TO LEAD US IN
SUCH A DIFFICULT TIME.
MAKE THIS DECISION WITH THE
FULL INPUT OF THE PUBLIC AND DO
NOT RUSH IT WITHOUT DUE PROCESS
FROM ANOTHER EMAIL I AM WRITING
TO EXPRESS MY CONCERN ABOUT THE
PROCESS AND SPEED OF THE EFFORT
TO HIRE A NEW CITY
ADMINISTRATOR FOR ANN ARBOR
FROM ANOTHER EMAIL I AM
DISTRESSED BY THE RUSH TO HIRE
A NEW CITY ADMINISTRATOR
WITHOUT THE INPUT OF THE PUBLIC
FOR EVERY OTHER POSITION
OF SIMILAR STATURE.
THE PREVIOUS CITY ADMINISTRATOR
IS HIRING PROCESS POLICE CHIEF
SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT.
THERE HAS BEEN A CHANCE FOR
CITIZENS TO SPEAK WITH AND ASK
QUESTIONS OF THE CANDIDATE.
ANOTHER EMAIL I WOULD ASK THAT
YOU THINK ABOUT PROCESS AND NOW
WHAT&apos;S BEEN DONE IN THE PAST.
WHAT&apos;S THE REASON FOR NOT
ALLOWING THE CITIZENS OF THE
CITY TO HAVE SOME INPUT?
RUSHING THROUGH THINGS RARELY
LEADS TO A GOOD OUTCOME.
YOU&apos;VE BEEN GIVEN THE POWER AND
TRUST FROM THE PEOPLE TO DO
THINGS RIGHT THE SAME PEOPLE
TEND TO BE FAIRLY INTUITIVE AND
SMART.
I AM SURE THEY WOULD PREFER TO
ACT WITH INTEGRITY.
IDEALLY OUR COMMUNITY IS LED BY
PEOPLE WHO HAVE SINCERELY HELD
BELIEFS AND PRINCIPLES TO GUIDE
THEIR PUBLIC STATEMENTS AND
DECISION MAKING.
THE DECISION FOR US TONIGHT
UNFORTUNATELY HIGHLIGHTS AND
UNDERLINES JUST HOW EAGERLY
THIS BODY ENGAGES IN
DISINGENUOUS POSTURES FOR THE
EXPRESS PURPOSE OF MANIPULATING
PUBLIC PERCEPTION, COMMUNITY
MEMBERS DO WATCH OUR MEETINGS
AND THEY ARE REACHING OUT TO ME
TO SHARE WHAT THEY SEE.
I EXPECT MR. DE HONI TO BE
APPROVED TONIGHT AS OUR
PERMANENT CITY ADMINISTRATOR AS
A RELATIVELY NEW RESIDENT AND
CITY LEADER.
I HOPE THAT AS HE LEARNS MORE
ABOUT OUR COMMUNITY HE SEES
THAT WE ARE SMARTER AND MORE
DECENT THAN WHAT HE SEES AT
THESE MEETINGS.
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT.
THANK YOU.
I LIKE TO READ A QUOTE FROM
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON DURING
THE LAST HIRING PROCESS.
I KNOW THAT I&apos;M GOING TO BE
ACCUSED OF INSULTING THE PUBLIC
OR DISMISSING THE PUBLIC BUT
THERE IS A RELATIVELY SMALL
NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN OUR TOWN
WHO ARE GOING TO HAVE A LOT
OF SKIN IN THE GAME IN TERMS
OF WHO WE CHOOSE, NELSON SAID,
ARGUING OUR FOUR FINALISTS ARE
EXCELLENT.
I&apos;M READY TO MOVE FORWARD
TONIGHT AND I REALLY AM JUST
TIRED OF THE GAMES THAT WE SEEM
TO BE PLAYING PRETENDING THAT
THERE&apos;S NOT ENOUGH INFORMATION,
PRETENDING THAT PUBLIC INPUT IS
GOING TO BE DECISIVE.
NO, NO KNOW NOTHING.
THANK YOU.
PART ONE.
PART TWO MR. TONY IS AN
OUTSTANDING ADMINISTRATOR.
WE SHOULD NOT RUN WE SHOULD
RECRUIT THE PURPLE TRACK CLUB
FROM PIONEER TO RUN FOR US AT
THEIR NATIONAL RECORD SETTING
PACE TO GET HIM TO COME AND
STAY HERE.
MY EXPERIENCE WITH MR. TONY HAS
BEEN THAT HE IS ALWAYS THREE
STEPS AHEAD OF EVERYONE ELSE IN
THE ROOM THAT HE LISTENS
CAREFULLY, THAT HE ASKED GREAT
FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS AND THEN HE
PULLS FROM HIS EXTENSIVE
EXPERIENCE AS A PROFESSIONAL
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND BRINGS
SOMETHING NEW TO THE TABLE
EVERY TIME HE HAS BEEN
RESPONSIVE WHEN I&apos;VE HAD
CONCERNS ABOUT POLICY, ABOUT
COMMUNICATIONS WITH STAFF EVERY
TIME HE IS JUST OUTSTANDING SO
TO THINK.
AND WE AND ONE OF THE REASONS I
ASKED AMONG OTHERS MYSELF TO BE
HERE WITH US WAS TO REALLY TALK
ABOUT THE PROCESS.
THERE&apos;S NOTHING IT&apos;S A
DIFFERENT PROCESS AND WE&apos;VE HAD
BECAUSE WE DID THE INTERVIEWS
AND WE ASKED THESE QUESTIONS
AND WHAT WE WERE LOOKING FOR
AND WE INTERVIEWED THE
CANDIDATES FOR THE INTERIM
LEVEL.
WHAT WE GOT WAS AN INCREDIBLY
PLEASANT SURPRISE AND ONE
THAT&apos;S BENEFICIAL TO OUR CITY
AND I&apos;D READ A QUOTE FROM ONE
OF THE STAFF MEMBERS IN THE
EVALUATION THAT WAS CONDUCTED
BY MYSELF AS A COMMUNICATOR.
WE HAVE HAD IN THIS ROLE NO
SLIGHT TO HIS PREDECESSORS.
HOWEVER, MR. ADMINISTRATOR IS
ON ANOTHER LEVEL HIS EXPERIENCE
IS INVALUABLE HIS REASONING
SOUND AND JUST PLEASE DO WHAT
YOU CAN TO KEEP HIM AS OUR
LEADER.
THE CITY DESERVES LEADERSHIP
LIKE THAT OFFERED FROM HIM WITH
DEPARTMENT OF LEAVING AND
HAVING LEFT IN RECENT YEARS WE
HAVE A BIT OF A VOID THAT THE
REMAINING ESSAYS CANNOT FILL
THE AS A FAMOUS FICTIONAL
CHARACTER ONCE SAID THE FORCE
IS STRONG WITH THIS ONE HE IS
THE JEDI WE HAVE BEEN WAITING
FOR.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS NO NEED TO POSTPONE
ANYTHING SO I&apos;LL BE VOTING
AGAINST THE POSTPONEMENT AND
WITH GREAT ENTHUSIASM I WILL BE
VOTING TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
HIRING MR. TONY AS OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILMAN BROOKLIER, THANK
YOU.
&gt;&gt; I ALSO WILL BE VOTING
AGAINST THE POSTPONEMENT.
I AM THRILLED THAT WE ARE
VOTING TONIGHT TO UM SEEK MR.
DONEES ACCEPTANCE OF BEING OUR
PERMANENT CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
UM, HAVING HAD A LOT
OF EXPERIENCE IN MY
PROFESSIONAL WORLD WITH HIRING
PEOPLE FOR DIFFERENT POSITIONS
AND IN DIFFERENT TYPES
OF SITUATIONS, THIS SITUATION
IS AS SOMEONE SAID, IT&apos;S
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT WE&apos;VE HAD
IN RECENT MEMORY BUT IT&apos;S NOT
UNUSUAL AT ALL, UH, TO FIND
SOMEONE THAT YOU THINK IS GOING
TO SERVE AN INTERIM POSITION
AND HAVE THEM ABSOLUTELY KNOCK
IT OUT OF THE BALLPARK AND WANT
TO DO EVERYTHING YOU CAN TO
KEEP THEM ON YOUR TEAM.
SO IN MY VIEW THIS IS A GOOD
PROCESS THAT WE&apos;VE GONE
THROUGH.
WE&apos;VE GOTTEN GREAT FEEDBACK
FROM STAFF, FROM COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND YOU KNOW,
IMPORTANTLY I PERSONALLY CAN&apos;T
THINK OF ANYTHING I WOULD ASK
HIM IN A UH SORT OF A FAKE
INTERVIEW TYPE SITUATION THAT
THAT WOULD GIVE ME ANY MORE
INSIGHT THAN WHAT I&apos;VE ALREADY
GLEANED FROM MY WORKING WITH
HIM FROM SEEING HIM HERE IN THE
CHAMBERS FROM SEEING HOW HE
INTERACTS IN MEETINGS WITH
STAKEHOLDERS AND THE PUBLIC.
HE&apos;S JUST HE HAS IMPRESSED ME
AT
EVERY TURN AND I THINK, UH,
YOU KNOW, TO THE TO THE
QUESTION ABOUT PROCESS AND GOOD
GOVERNMENT, I THINK IT WOULD BE
IRRESPONSIBLE OF US TO, UH TO
POSTPONE THIS WHEN WE HAVE
SOMEONE WHO IS, UH, SUCH A
STELLAR CANDIDATE JUST JUST
WAITING FOR OUR OFFER AND RISK
LOSING HIM RISK UM YOU KNOW,
HURTING MORALE WITH CITY STAFF
WHO REALLY WANT TO KEEP HIM AND
YOU KNOW AND FRANKLY COSTING
THE CITY MORE MONEY THAT&apos;S JUST
NOT NECESSARY TO GET WE HAVE
THE INFORMATION WE NEED AND SO
I&apos;LL BE VOTING AGAINST THIS
POSTPONEMENT.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER FEIGNER WELL
THANKS MR. MAYOR.
&gt;&gt; NORMALLY I WOULD SUPPORT
THIS TYPE OF THING TO GIVE MY
COLLEAGUES OPPORTUNITIES TO
FAKE INTERVIEW BUT IN THIS CASE
THE I&apos;M GOING TO PASS ON THAT
BECAUSE WHAT I&apos;M WHAT I&apos;M
WEIGHING HERE IS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO HIRE SOMEONE TO
SIT IN THIS POSITION OR I
SUPPOSE THE POTENTIAL THAT
PRIOR TO OR AT THE END OF HIS
CONTRACT HE MIGHT LEAVE AND
THEN WHAT ARE WE LEFT WITH?
SO ALTHOUGH I SECOND THAT
NOTION I&apos;M GOING TO UH I GUESS
I&apos;M GOING TO GOING TO SAY NO TO
TO THIS DELAY AND IT WILL GO ON
WITH A VOTE IN YOU KNOW, THE
MORE VIGOR WITH WHICH SOME
PEOPLE AT THIS TABLE SUPPORT
MR. THE ONLY THE LESS I
INCLINED I AM TO TO SUPPORT HIM
MYSELF.
I HAVE TO BE HONEST IT CONCERNS
ME.
&gt;&gt; I I I&apos;M NOT SURE WHAT&apos;S BEEN
GOING ON HOW THESE PEOPLE HAVE
ALL THIS INSIGHT AND INPUT IN
FACE TIME WITH OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR OR OUR COUNCIL
RULES IN POOR COMMUNICATION
WITH STAFF BEING FOLLOWED.
&gt;&gt; I DOUBT IT.
&gt;&gt; FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT SONG.
SO ON THE POSTPONEMENT MY WORRY
IS THAT THIS WOULD IMPACT THE
ONGOING WORK OF THE CITY.
I&apos;VE SEEN MR. HONY IN MEETINGS
AT THE COUNTY WITH MR. BILL.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;VE SEEN HIM I&apos;VE HEARD
REPORTS BACK WITH HIS EFFORTS
WITH OUR FEDERAL
REPRESENTATIVES FROM
CONGRESSWOMAN DINGELL TO
SENATOR STABENOW.
I&apos;VE BEEN ENCOURAGED TO SEE HIM
DO INTENSIVE OUTREACH WITH OUR
PUBLIC SCHOOLS OTHER EXECUTIVE
DR. SWIFT AND TRUSTIES I KNOW
HE&apos;S MET WITH OUR LOCAL NAACP.
HE&apos;S BEEN INVALUABLE ON THE
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION
WORK.
THERE&apos;S SO MUCH WORK TO BE DONE
AT THE AT THE CITY AND THAT
REQUIRES EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP.
&gt;&gt; MY WORRY IS THAT WITH A
DELAY THAT IMPACTS THE DAILY
WORK THAT HAPPENS HERE THE
DAILY WORK THAT ALSO REQUIRES
LEADERSHIP DEMONSTRATED
LEADERSHIP IN HIRING.
SO AS FAR AS I KNOW WE ARE
STILL IN THE PROCESS OF HIRING
A DIVERSITY DIRECTOR.
WE&apos;RE IN THE PROCESS OF HIRING
A PUBLIC WORKS ADMINISTRATOR
AND THESE ARE IMPORTANT ROLES
IN THE CITY.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD THINK FOR FOLKS WHO
ARE CONSIDERING WORKING HERE
THEY WOULD SEE THIS
CONVERSATION AND THINK THAT
THEY WOULD CONSIDER THIS AS
PART OF THEIR THEIR
CONSIDERATION TO WORK HERE,
WHETHER THAT WE HAVE A FAITH
AND SUPPORT IN OUR EXECUTIVE
AND HAVE A SENSE OF HOW
SENSITIVE TIMING IS FOR THE
DAILY WORK HERE.
I AM NOT IN SUPPORT OF DELAY
AND YOU KNOW, IF LET ME ALSO
JUST ALLUDE TO THE MESSAGES
THAT WE HAVE RECEIVED FROM THE
PUBLIC IF NOT NOW FROM THESE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO HAVE
REACHED OUT TO US EXPRESSING
THEIR DELIGHT AND EXCITEMENT
AROUND TONY COMING TO THE CITY
ON A PERMANENT BASIS.
THERE&apos;S ALSO DOWNTOWN
BUSINESSES WHO ARE VERY EXCITED
TO SEE THIS HAPPEN AND BECAUSE
MR. DONEES PERFORMANCE DICTATES
THIS TRUST INFORMS US SO THANK
YOU.
I AM NOT IN SUPPORT FOR THE
DELAY OR THE DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT ROLL-CALL VOTE ON
THE POSTPONEMENT STARTING WITH
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
BRIGS NO
CUSTOMER AMAWI YES BECAUSE
WE&apos;RE HAYNER NO CUSTOMER ISH NO
HOUSEWORKER AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; NO CUSTOMER SONG NO
COUNTERPROGRAM NO CUSTOMER
DENHA NO RETAILOR NO CUSTOMER
IRE NO CUSTOMER NELSON NO
MOTION FAILS FURTHER DISCUSSION
THE MAIN MOTION ROLL CALL VOTE
PLEASE START WITH COUNCIL NO
BRIGS HEALTHWORKS YES THAT&apos;S MY
ROLLAWAY.
YES THAT&apos;S MY HAIR.
YES THAT&apos;S MY DISH YES.
CUSTOMER GRISWOLD YES CUSTOMER
SONG YES THAT&apos;S PERGRAM YES
THAT&apos;S MY RED DENHA YES MURTALA
YES THAT&apos;S MARIAH.
YES THAT&apos;S WHERE NELSON YES.
&gt;&gt; WASHINGTON D.C. FOR
RESOLUTION TO ADVANCE
SUSTAINABLE FOOD OPTIONS AT
CITY FACILITIES AND EVENTS MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC FOR
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THIS TOPIC WAS FIRST BROUGHT TO
ME BY THE WARD FOR A RESIDENT
AND THEN WE PASSED IT PASSED A
RESOLUTION ON SEPTEMBER 7TH
OF LAST ER ASKING FOR A REPORT
ON FOOD PURCHASES MADE BY THE
CITY AND WE REPORT FROM JANUARY
30 WAS INCLUDED ON OUR PUBLIC
AGENDA FOR OUR FEBRUARY 7TH
MEETING.
I HAVE ASKED FOR DR. STULTZ TO
PROVIDE SOME BACKGROUND ON THIS
BECAUSE THERE WAS A LITTLE
CONFUSION AT THAT SEPTEMBER
MEETING THAT I THINK SHE CAN
HELP CLARIFY.
I&apos;M EXCITED THAT DR. STOLTZ
DEPARTMENT IS NOW PARTICIPATING
IN MEETINGS WITH WASHTENAW
COUNTY FOOD POLICY COUNCIL
CONVERSATIONS AROUND MORE
SUSTAINABLE FOOD PROCUREMENT
POLICIES HAVE BEEN GOING ON AT
THE COUNTY LEVEL FOR SOME TIME
AND SO WE ARE WE ARE BASICALLY
JOINING THEIR EFFORTS AND
HAVING IMPORTANT CONVERSATIONS.
SO IF DR. STOLTZ IS AVAILABLE
TO TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
THIS, I WOULD APPRECIATE IT.
&gt;&gt; MAYOR DR. STULTS IS
AVAILABLE.
THANK YOU, DR. STULTS.
YES, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL AND
COUNCILMAN WILSON FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO COLLABORATE ON
THIS WITH YOU.
WHAT WE HAVE BEFORE TODAY IS A
RESOLUTION THAT REALLY ADVANCES
A LOT OF THE SUSTAINABLE FOOD
PRACTICES AT CITY FACILITIES.
JUST TO CLARIFY, THERE WAS A
LITTLE BIT OF KIND UNCERTAINTY
AROUND THAT.
THE CITY ITSELF AS WE SAW IN
THE REPORT WE SHARED WITH
COUNCIL IN FEBRUARY THE VERY
BEGINNING OF FEBRUARY DOESN&apos;T
ACTUALLY PROCURE A LOT OF FOOD
BUT IT IS A SYMBOLIC CURE.
SO WE PROCURE FOOD PARK SITES
WITHIN OUR JAIL SYSTEM AT CITY
HALL AND A FEW OTHER AREAS.
SO WE WORKED OVER THE LAST FEW
MONTHS WITH CITY STAFF AND WITH
A TASK FORCE OF LOCAL FOOD
EXPERTS AND WE DEVELOPED THE
RECOMMENDATIONS IN THE REPORT
AND THEN WE STEPPED BACK IN
STAFF AND TRIED TO FIGURE OUT
WHICH WERE THE ACTIONS THAT WE
WANT TO MOVE FORWARD WITH
IMMEDIATELY BECAUSE WE CAPACITY
THE INTEREST, THE ENTHUSIASM
ETC. AND SO BEFORE EACH NIGHT
YOU SEE SOME OF THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS REALLY
CENTERING ON CHOICE WITHIN OUR
FOOD SYSTEM.
THERE&apos;S ONE STRATEGY THAT WILL
ACTUALLY HELP US REDUCE COSTS
BY PROVIDING HEALTHIER BEVERAGE
OPTIONS IN ONE OF OUR PEPSI AND
THESE ARE THINGS THAT CITY
STAFF ARE GENERALLY SUPPORTIVE
OF BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE IN ALIGNMENT
WITH WHERE WE&apos;RE GOING ANYWAY
AS WE EMBRACE SUSTAINABILITY
PRACTICES, FURTHER DISCUSSION
COMES A BRITISH I&apos;D LIKE TO SAY
HOW PLEASED I AM THAT CUTS.
NELSON RAISED THE BANNER FOR
THIS INITIATIVE BACK IN
SEPTEMBER AND HOW THRILLED I AM
THAT ON THE AGENDA.
ANIMAL AGRICULTURE CONTRIBUTES
ALMOST 15 PERCENT OF OUR
PLANET&apos;S TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS.
THAT&apos;S A LOT BUT WORSE THAN
THAT, ANIMAL AGRICULTURE IS A
TRULY INEFFICIENT WAY
OF PROVIDING PEOPLE WITH
CALORIES AND PROTEIN.
SO ANYTHING THAT WE AS A CITY
CAN DO TO MODEL MORE LESS
PLANET EXPENSIVE WAYS OF EATING
IS WONDERFUL TO ME AND IN THE
VERY WELL-WRITTEN REPORT THAT
OR MEMO I GUESS I SHOULD SAY
THAT WE RECEIVED ON FEBRUARY
7TH I TOOK AWAY THAT
SUSTAINABLE FOOD PURCHASING
SHIFTING CATERING PURCHASES TO
LOCAL BUSINESSES AND REPLACING
LESS HEALTHY BEVERAGE CHOICES
WITH HEALTHIER ONES WOULD SAVE
THE CITY MONEY NOT TO MENTION
PROVIDING HEALTH BENEFITS.
AND I&apos;M ALL IN FOR CHEAPER AND
BETTER FOR YOU.
&gt;&gt; OH SO I&apos;D LIKE TO BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR COUNCIL MEMBER
HAYNER YEAH.
THANKS MR..
&gt;&gt; I ALSO WAS GOING TO ASK TO
BE A CO-SPONSOR SUSTAINABLE IS
A WORD THAT GETS TOSSED AROUND
A LITTLE BIT WHEN WE YOU KNOW
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT CLIMATE
CHANGE AND CLIMATE ACTION AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT RESILIENCE IS THE
BIGGEST AND MOST IMPORTANT PART
OF OUR CLIMATE ACTION PLAN TO
ME AND SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH
FOOD OPTIONS IS SUPER IMPORTANT
LOCALLY IF WE CAN THE MORE WE
CAN SUSTAINABLY SOURCE LOCAL
FOOD AND SUPPORT OF LOCAL
AGRICULTURAL EFFORTS, THE
BETTER OFF WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
THE MORE RESILIENT WE&apos;RE TO BE
AS A COMMUNITY.
SOME OF THE AGRICULTURAL BLOGS
THAT I FOLLOW HAVE BEEN RINGING
THE ALARM BELL ABOUT THE
MISSING THE PLANTING SEASON AND
UKRAINE AND OTHER CLIMATE
CATASTROPHES ARE WAITING AROUND
THE WORLD WHEAT FIELDS AND SO
ON.
&gt;&gt; AND I&apos;VE ACTUALLY THEY
THEY&apos;RE ACTUALLY SUGGESTING
THAT THERE MIGHT BE A FOOD
SHORTAGE EQUIVALENT TO TWO
BILLION PEOPLE NOT HAVING
ANYTHING TO EAT THIS YEAR
COMING UP THAT&apos;S PRETTY
SUBSTANTIAL.
AND SO ANYTHING WE CAN DO TO
ALLEVIATE THAT AND SHIFT AWAY
FROM AS COUNCILWOMEN SAID
,
YEAH, ESPECIALLY ANIMAL
AGRICULTURE AND YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S
HAD SAID THAT AND I&apos;M SURE DR.
STOATS COULD COULD PUT THE REAL
NUMBERS TO THIS.
BUT THE ONE THING THAT PEOPLE
CAN DO TO PERSONALLY PERSONAL
EFFORT THAT PEOPLE CAN MAKE TO
HELP WITH SUSTAINABILITY AND
CLIMATE CHANGE OF COURSE IS TO
LOSE MEAT FROM THEIR DIET AND I
GUESS I GUESS IT&apos;S SOMETHING I
I DON&apos;T KNOW.
IT&apos;S DEAR TO MY HEART.
I HAVEN&apos;T HAD A PIECE OF MEAT
IN FRONT OF ME SINCE 1984.
I JUST I WAS JUST CALLING I
COULDN&apos;T BELIEVE BUT I&apos;VE BEEN
A VEGETARIAN SINCE 1984 AND SO
TIME FLIES, YOU KNOW AND HERE I
AM AND I THINK EVERYBODY COULD
COULD STAND TO TRY THAT AND SO
THANK COUNCILWOMAN ELSOM FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD AND YOU
KNOW, THANKS TO THE FOLKS WHO
ARE NOT WATCHING OUR FOOD
POLICY COUNCIL, I KNOW SOME
REAL GOOD PEOPLE ON THERE DOING
SOME HARD WORK AND ANYTHING
THAT WE CAN DO TO TO JOIN WITH
THAT EFFORT IS IS IMPORTANT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER AMAWI.
THANK YOU.
AND A LOT OF GREAT COMMENTS
HAVE BEEN MADE REGARDING THE
BENEFITS OF A PLANT BASED DIET.
I APPRECIATE DR. SOLD HIS
EFFORTS COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON
AS WELL IN BRINGING THIS TO OUR
ATTENTION IN THE FOREFRONT
OF OUR PUBLIC POLICY SETTING.
I KNOW EARLY ON WE TALKED ABOUT
A TWO ZERO THERE WAS A BRIEF
MENTION OF OF FOOD AND AND THE
NEED TO REDUCE OUR CONSUMPTION
OF MEAT PRODUCTS AND DAIRY
PRODUCTS AND THE EFFECTS THAT
THEY HAVE ON THE ENVIRONMENT
AND FURTHERMORE THE EFFECTS
THAT THEY HAVE ON THE HUMAN
BODY.
SO I APPRECIATE THIS.
I KNOW IT&apos;S NOT A IT&apos;S NOT
GOING TO MOVE THE NEEDLE AS FAR
AS WE&apos;D LIKE, BUT I THINK IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT THAT WE ACT IN A WAY
THAT WE LEAD BY EXAMPLE AND
EDUCATE PEOPLE IN DOING SUCH
AND THIS IS ONE SMALL STEP IN
THAT DIRECTION.
SO THANKS FOR THAT AND
HOPEFULLY, YOU KNOW, I RATHER
SEE US TAKE STEPS IN REDUCING
OUR CONSUMPTION, REDUCING OUR
WASTE, REDUCING OUR PACKAGING,
REDUCING OUR IMPACT RATHER THAN
FOCUSING ON THINGS SUCH AS
OFFSETS AND AND TRYING TO BUY
OUR WAY OUT OF THIS PROBLEM.
I DON&apos;T THINK WE CAN DO IT.
I THINK THE INCONVENIENT TRUTH
IS WE NEED TO CHANGE OUR
BEHAVIOR AND WE NEED TO CHANGE
IT IN A DRASTIC AND MEANINGFUL
WAYS HAS BEEN DESCRIBED IN THIS
RESOLUTION.
IF WE ALL WERE TO DO OUR PART I
THINK WE WOULD MAKE A HUGE
IMPACT AND WE WOULDN&apos;T BE
NEEDING TO TO RAISE A BUNCH
OF MONEY AND SPEND A BUNCH
OF MONEY IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE
OUR GOALS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, CARL FOR SONG.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M WONDERING IF CITY
FACILITIES TO THE SPONSORS TO
CITY FACILITIES ALSO INCLUDE
OUR OUR HOUSING, OUR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND I ASK ONLY BECAUSE
YOU KNOW, AS YOU KNOW, SOME
OF OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING SITES
ARE ALSO COMMUNITY CENTERS THAT
OUR FOOD DISTRIBUTION CENTERS.
SO IS THERE A CONFLICT AND WHAT
KIND OF FOOD IS DISTRIBUTED
THERE?
&gt;&gt; I MEAN WICKET&apos;S WHICH IS
NOTORIOUS FOR HAVING NOT
SUSTAINABLE FOOD BEING
DISTRIBUTED.
&gt;&gt; SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THERE&apos;S A
CONFLICT OR THERE&apos;S A CONCERN
THERE OR IF THAT WAS A
CONSIDERATION.
&gt;&gt; WE DIDN&apos;T LOOK AT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING SITES AS PART OF THIS
ANALYSIS.
I THINK THAT&apos;S SOMETHING WE CAN
WE CAN CERTAINLY EXPLORE AS
PART OF OUR COLLABORATION MORE
BROADLY.
BUT THIS WAS REALLY ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT CITY OWNED CONTROLLED
SITES LIKE ACHAKZAI WHERE OUR
VENDING MACHINES THAT WE HAVE
IN CITY HALL WHEN WE HAVE A
FOOD CONTRACT THAT WAS FORMERLY
TASTY GREEN FOR EXAMPLE, MAKING
WHEN THEY COME IN THEY ALSO
OFFER SUSTAINABLE FOOD OPTIONS
.
&gt;&gt; SO THIS WOULD BE FOOD THAT
WOULD BE CONTRACTED THROUGH THE
CITY, NOT OVERSIGHT OVER PUBLIC
EVENTS THAT ARE HOSTED ON CITY
SITES JUST TO CLARIFY THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO IF THERE IS A COMMUNITY
COOKOUT WITH ME, THIS IS
SOMETHING I THINK THE COMMUNITY
WOULD WONDER, YOU KNOW, IF IF
THERE IS UNSUSTAINED FOOD
THAT&apos;S BEING SHARED THAT&apos;S
CULTURALLY APPROPRIATE.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN WHERE DOES THAT FALL
WITHIN WITH THE KNOW A FEW
CLARIFYING THINGS IF THE CITY
ITSELF IS A HOST OF THAT THEN
WE WOULD BE OFFERING
SUSTAINABLE FOOD OPTIONS AND
THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S REALLY IMPORTANT
IN THE RESOLUTION ITSELF.
IT&apos;S NOT ACTUALLY BANNING MOST
THINGS CULTURALLY APPROPRIATE.
FOOD IS ABSOLUTELY
UNEQUIVOCALLY APPROPRIATE BUT
IT&apos;S ALSO PROVIDING OPTIONS AND
MANY OF OUR SYSTEMS RIGHT NOW
THERE ISN&apos;T A CHOICE IF YOU&apos;RE
A VEGAN, IF THERE ISN&apos;T AN
OPTION YOU COULD GET A BAG
OF CHIPS PERHAPS AND THAT&apos;S NOT
HEALTHY EITHER.
AND SO THE FIRST STEP IS MAKING
SURE THAT WE CAN FEED PEOPLE
THAT CHOICE FOR SELECTING A
MORE SUSTAINABLE OPTION THEN
THEY WANT TO HAVE EVENTUALLY
WORKING TOWARDS A LABELING
SYSTEM SO PEOPLE CAN START TO
UNDERSTAND BOGOSITY FACILITIES
AND WITH OUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS
WHAT THE SUSTAINABLE CHOICES
ARE AVAILABLE TO THEM OUT SORT
OF TAKING AWAY WE&apos;RE ADDING
CHOICE TO THE SYSTEM IS THE WAY
THAT I SORT OF THINK ABOUT IT.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S HELPFUL.
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO CLEAR THAT
CLARIFY IN CASE THERE&apos;S
CONFUSION IN THE COMMUNITY AND
CONCERN AND WHAT THIS WOULD
LOOK LIKE ONE STEP FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED DC FIVE RESOLUTION
SETTING A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE
APPLICATION OF SARTORIALIST BIO
ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS FOR
INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES EXISTANT
CERTIFICATE IN INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT NUMBER TWO
ZERO TWO ONE ZERO ZERO ONE MOVE
BY COUNCILOR DENHA SECURITY
COUNCIL PRIOR DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC FIVE COUNCIL BRAINARD
THANK SELF-SUPPORT IS TO HAVE A
PUBLIC HEARING AND I HOPE THAT
MR GARBA WILL COME BACK AND PUT
THE NUMBERS IN FRONT OF US AS
TO HOW TAX ABATEMENTS FOR GAS
POWERED NEW CONSTRUCTION ARE
NOT APPROPRIATE.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF OR FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED DC SIX
RESOLUTION APPROVED DOWNTOWN
STREET CLOSURES FOR RESTAURANT
AND RETAIL USE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA SECOND I COUNCIL
MEMBER FOR OUR DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC SIX COUNCIL FOR
SONG.
I REALLY WANT TO THANK SANDRA
ANDRADO FOR WORKING ON THIS
RESOLUTION AND PRESENTING THIS
TO COUNCIL MEMBERS THIS IS A
RESULT OF A JANUARY SURVEY THAT
WENT OUT TO DOWNTOWN BUSINESSES
AND RESIDENTS CAPTURING A 96
PERCENT SUPPORT IN CONTINUED
STREET CLOSURES.
I THINK IT WAS NEARLY UNANIMOUS
IN HEARING HOW THE STREET
CLOSURES HAVE BENEFITED
DOWNTOWN BUSINESSES RESIDENTS
MAKING SURE THAT IT WAS ACTIVE
AND HELPING BUSINESSES RECOVER
FROM THE PANDEMIC.
I WAS REALLY HAPPY TO SEE THAT
WE HAD HOPEFULLY WE CAN EXTEND
THIS AND WE CAN ALSO LOOK INTO
SEEING WHAT PERMANENT CLOSURES
WOULD BE TOO.
SO I ENCOURAGED MY COLLEAGUES
TO VOTE IN SUPPORT.
&gt;&gt; THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SORRY COUNCILOR RESULT
YOU HAD ALREADY RAISED YOUR
HAND.
MY APOLOGIES.
SCOTTSBURG GRISWOLD I&apos;D LIKE TO
BE LISTED AS A COSPAR SIR.
I THINK THIS IS AN EXCELLENT
IDEA AND I JUST WANT TO THANK
ALL OF THE INDIVIDUALS.
SOME WERE CUSTOMERS AND SOME
REPRESENTED BUSINESSES WHO TOOK
THE TIME TO WRITE TO COUNCIL
ADVOCATING FOR THIS SO IT&apos;S
GREAT IT&apos;S GOOD FOR THE
COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SORRY COUNCILOR.
I INTERRUPTED YOU.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER.
I&apos;M SORRY.
&gt;&gt; I THANK YOU.
THE STREET CLOSURES BEGAN BACK
IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE MYSELF AND
COUNCIL MEMBER FORMER COUNCIL
MEMBER ONE WAS STAFF AND
BUSINESS ASSOCIATION TO ADDRESS
THE ISSUES OF THE PANDEMIC THE
FIRST SEVERAL WEEKS THE INTENT
WITH THESE TO BEGIN WITH WAS TO
PROVIDE A SAFE ENVIRONMENT FOR
PEOPLE TO DINE FOR BUSINESS IS
TO STILL FUNCTION AND STAY
ALIVE AND GET TO WHERE WE ARE
TODAY.
I WAS SURPRISED TO SEE THIS
COME UP AS A STAFF SPA COUNCIL
SPONSORED RESOLUTION UM EARLY
ON WHEN IT FIRST APPEARED ON
THE AGENDA I WASN&apos;T INVITED TO
BE A SPONSOR.
UM EVEN THOUGH I SPENT UM 40 TO
60 HOURS ON THE ISSUE IN THE
HEIGHT OF THE PANDEMIC UH, BUT
HERE WE ARE TODAY AND AND I
APPRECIATE AS ESPECIALLY ADONI
AS A SPONSOR UM I BELIEVE THAT
THIS IS IMPORTANT BUT I THINK
WE&apos;VE ENTERED A DIFFERENT PHASE
IN OUR COMMUNITY AND IN OUR
NEED FOR THESE UM UH STREET
CLOSURES.
I WILL SAY THAT THERE ARE SOME
PEOPLE WHO ARE NEGATIVELY
IMPACTED BY THE STREET
CLOSURES.
UM, AND WE HAVEN&apos;T ADDRESSED
SOME OF THE ISSUES AND
UNFORTUNATELY I WASN&apos;T INVOLVED
OR INVITED IN CONVERSATIONS
THAT WOULD HAVE ALLOWED SOME
DISCUSSION ON THESE ISSUES.
UM, I&apos;LL BRING THEM UP HERE
TONIGHT AND HOPEFULLY WE CAN
FIX THEM IN TIME.
BUT THERE CONTINUES TO BE
ISSUES WITH HANDICAPPED
PARKING.
THERE IS NO AREAS FOR PEOPLE
WITH SPECIAL NEEDS.
UH, TO PARK AND TO ACCESS THE
AMENITIES WE ELIMINATED A LOT
OF AREAS THAT WOULD OTHERWISE
BE AVAILABLE.
WE HAVE A LACK OF PUBLIC
RESTROOMS.
WE ARE INVITING THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE TO OUR DOWNTOWN BUT
TELLING THEM THEY MUST BUY
SOMETHING FROM SOMEPLACE IN
ORDER TO USE A PUBLIC RESTROOM
.
&gt;&gt; AND THERE IS FURTHER CONCERN
ABOUT THE RETAIL COMMUNITY UM
ASIDE FROM THE RESTAURANT
COMMUNITY WHO HAVE BEEN
IMPACTED BY THESE AND I WOULD
JUST URGE THOSE WHO MAKE THESE
DECISIONS TO CONSIDER THE
WHETHER WHEN THEY CLOSE THE
ROADS THERE HAS BEEN MANY
WEEKENDS IN FALL AND IN SPRING
WHERE IT&apos;S
50 DEGREES OUT AND
RAINING AND THE STREETS ARE
CLOSED FOR THREE DAYS.
SO I WOULD HOPE DECISIONS ARE
BETTER INFORMED BY THE WEATHER
WHEN THIS HAPPENS IN THE EARLY
PART IN THE LATER PART OF THIS
SEASON BECAUSE THERE EMPTY
STREETS THERE ARE BARRICADED.
THERE&apos;S NO GOOD FOR ANYBODY
FURTHER COUNCILMAN DENHA.
THANK YOU, MAYOR, VERY BRIEFLY,
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I&apos;M
EXCITED TO SEE THIS MOVING
FORWARD AGAIN.
I AGREE THAT THERE ARE PROBABLY
A NUMBER OF THINGS THAT WE CAN
CONTINUE TO LOOK TO IMPROVE IN
THIS PROCESS.
I AM ONE WHO WOULD LOVE TO SEE
IF WE COULD FIGURE OUT SOME WAY
TO TO CONTINUE THIS ANNUALLY
INTO THE FUTURE.
I THINK THE THE VIBRANCY OF OUR
DOWNTOWN AND THE COMMUNITY
BUILDING THAT TAKES PLACE I
THINK REGARDLESS OF THE
PANDEMIC PEOPLE ENJOY BEING
OUTDOORS AND BEING ABLE TO TO
VISIT WITH ONE ANOTHER AND AND
VISIT OUR BUSINESSES AND SEEING
THE PEOPLE DOWNTOWN, YOU KNOW,
INVESTING BACK INTO OUR LOCAL
ECONOMY IS JUST IT&apos;S REALLY
EXCITING.
SO I I ENCOURAGE US TO CONTINUE
LOOKING AT A NUMBER OF THE
THINGS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
AMAWI JUST MENTIONED.
BUT I KNOW THAT THERE ARE
OTHERS AS WELL AROUND, YOU
KNOW, EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT THAT WE
NEED TO CONSIDER.
BUT I HOPE THIS IS SOMETHING WE
CAN CONTINUE TO LOOK AT INTO
THE FUTURE AND I WOULD LIKE TO
BE ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR POLICE
COUNCIL MEMBER AMALIA, THANK
YOU FOR THE SECOND TIME TO
SPEAK ON THIS XOS WANTED TO
FINISH A COUPLE OF THOUGHTS AND
A LITTLE WARNING TO OUR
MERCHANTS AND OPERATORS THERE
ON MAIN STREET I DO BELIEVE IS
WHAT STILL SCHEDULED IS NEXT
YEAR THE MAJOR RECONSTRUCT
OF MAIN STREET BETWEEN WILLIAM
AND HURON THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE
EXTENSIVE AND DISRUPTIVE.
THAT IS NOT GOING TO ALLOW FOR
THIS TO CONTINUE AT LEAST FOR
ONE YEAR NEXT YEAR.
AND SO I DON&apos;T KNOW WHERE WE
ARE IN THE DESIGN PROCESS AND
WHAT CAN BE DONE.
MANY PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY
HAVE REACHED OUT TO ME AND ARE
EXCITED ABOUT HAVING MORE
PEDESTRIAN ACTIVITIES AND THE
INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT THOSE
ACTIVITIES BUILT IN TO STREETS
LIKE MAIN STREET.
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF WE&apos;RE GOING TO
BE DESIGNING ANYTHING WITH THE
HARDSCAPE NEXT YEAR IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE TO LEND TO THIS
FUTURE TYPE OF USE TO OUR TO
OUR ROADS AND OUR STREETS.
SO AND WHEN WE GO TO DO THIS IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE PERHAPS WE
CAN INCORPORATE SOME OF THESE
ISSUES THAT HAVE BEEN RAISED
HERE TONIGHT AND OTHER PLACES
SO THAT WE CAN HAVE A MORE
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY ENVIRONMENT
FOR THE DOWNTOWN VISITORS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
CAN&apos;T NO BRAKES.
YEAH.
JUST REAL BRIEFLY TO REMEMBER
MEMBER THOSE COMMENTS AROUND
THE STREET WE DESIGN INTO THE
MAIN STREET AREA ASSOCIATION
HAS MADE SOME REQUEST WITH THAT
REGARD TO BE CONSIDERED IN
TERMS OF DESIGN AND SO I KNOW
THE STAFF IS CONSIDERING SOME
OF THAT AND PROVIDING FEEDBACK
.
CERTAINLY THE THE CHANGES THAT
ARE BEING MADE ON STATE STREET
ARE I THINK SOME OF THOSE
KABBALIST STREETS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT ARE PROBABLY THINGS
ARE GOING TO BE CONSIDERED
WITHIN THE DESIGN OF THIS AS
WELL TO MAKE IT MORE ACCESSIBLE
AND AMENABLE TO EVENTS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT JUST BRIEFLY
IN TERMS OF YOU KNOW, WHY THIS
IS APPEARING ON THE COUNCIL
BUSINESS, ONE OF THE REASONS
IT&apos;S APPEARING TONIGHT AS
OPPOSED TO ON THE CONSENT
AGENDA IS JUST TIMELINESS TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE THE STREET
CLOSURES CAN BE IN PLACE.
SO THIS WAS SORT AN ATTEMPT TO
MAKE SURE THAT THIS MOVE
FORWARD QUICKLY FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL BRAZIL
.
&gt;&gt; SO AS I UNDERSTAND IT, THESE
DISCUSSIONS AS COUNCIL MEMBER
AMAWI POINTED OUT BEGAN IN 2020
WITH THE PANDEMIC FIRST STARTED
AS AN AD HOC EFFORT AND HERE WE
ARE ALMOST TWO YEARS IN IT&apos;S
LESS AD HOC AND MORE ROUTINE
UNFORTUNATELY GIVEN THE THE
STATE OF THE PANDEMIC SO YOU
KNOW, THE THE ONE THING THAT I
JUST WANT TO POINT OUT WAS THAT
THIS AD HOC COMMITTEE WAS NOT
ON REGISTAR, WAS NOT PUBLIC,
DID NOT INFORM HAVE PUBLIC
COMMENTS BUT REALLY IT WAS THE
ONUS ON I THINK INDIVIDUAL
COUNCIL MEMBERS TO MAINTAIN
THOSE RELATIONSHIPS WITH
COMMUNITY MEMBERS, ESPECIALLY
GIVEN THAT WE ARE ALSO IN THE
DDA PARTNERSHIPS.
&gt;&gt; WHAT WAS THE DDA
PARTNERSHIPS COMMITTEE?
SO RELATIONSHIPS WITH MAIN
STREET AREA ASSOCIATION AND
OTHER GROUPS IS IS A DELIGHT.
IT&apos;S INTERESTING TO SEE HOW
ORGANIZATIONS CAN SURVIVE IN
THE FACE OF THESE CHALLENGES
AND I&apos;M REALLY GLAD THAT THIS
IS ONE WAY OF SUPPORTING A
LIVELY DOWNTOWN ENVIRONMENT FOR
THE DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; FOR MY PART I&apos;M DELIGHTED
THAT THIS IS GOING TO BE MOVING
FORWARD.
YOU KNOW IT IS STYLE DE STREET
CLOSURE BUT IT IS OF COURSE
OPENING THE STREETS TO FULL USE
BY BY PEDESTRIANS.
WE WELCOME, YOU KNOW, THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE DOWN TO DOWNTOWN ANN
ARBOR DURING THESE WEEKENDS
WHEN THE STREETS ARE LIMITED
VEHICULAR TRAFFIC AND ARE OPEN
TO TO BEING A PEDESTRIAN
WALKWAY.
AND I HAVE HEARD FROM RESIDENTS
ALL OVER THE CITY EXPRESSING
THEIR ENTHUSIASM FOR THE
AMENITY AND THEIR HOPE THAT
THIS CONTINUES FOR FOUR YEARS
TO COME AS I BELIEVE AS I
BELIEVE IT WILL.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS IS
REALLY, REALLY JUST GOOD FOR
EVERYONE.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE YOU KNOW, ALL OF OUR
EFFORTS ARE ITERATIVE.
I&apos;M SURE THERE ARE THINGS THAT
WE CAN IMPROVE.
I TOO HAVE HEARD CONCERNS WITH
RESPECT TO TO TO DISABLED FOLKS
AND THEIR PARKING CHALLENGES
AND I AM LOOKING FORWARD TO
DOING WHAT WE CAN TO TO TO MEET
THAT REQUIREMENT TO MEET THAT
NEED.
BUT IN THE MAIN I THINK THIS IS
AN OUTSTANDING THING THAT WE&apos;RE
ABLE TO DO FOR THE COMMUNITY IN
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE THE THE
PROXIMITY ASSOCIATIONS AND I&apos;M
GLAD THAT IT&apos;S MOVING FORWARD
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE
POST IT IS APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; MR MCDONALD, DO WE HAVE A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY?
&gt;&gt; WE DO NOT HAVE A CLOSED
SESSION, MAYOR.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE SUPPORT
COMMUNICATIONS PETITION AND
REFERRALS MAP MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THIS CLARK SUPPORT MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER THIS
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
SUPPORT IN FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED MR MCDONALD OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS OF OUR CITY
ATTORNEY NOT THIS EVENING THERE
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
GENERAL TIME PUBLIC GENERAL
TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL IN THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC
COMMENT GENERAL TIME ONE DID
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE.
&gt;&gt; SPEAKERS BOTH HERE AND
ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES
IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY ALL SPEAKERS WHEN THIRTY
SECONDS ARE REMAINING AND WHEN
TIME HAS EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL BIFURCATE.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT PLEASE SIR.
&gt;&gt; HELLO MY NAME IS TEACHER
BARTON.
I&apos;M CURRENTLY LIVE IN WORD FOR
AS A TAXPAYING PROPERTY OWNER
NATIVE SON OF ANN ARBOR WHO
RECEIVED HIS EAGLE SCOUT AWARD
BY WORKING WITH THE HURON RIVER
WATERSHED COUNCIL.
I&apos;M HERE TODAY TO ASK THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR COUNCIL TO ACT ON
AN UNRESOLVED ONGOING PUBLIC
CONCERN OVER NINE MONTHS AGO I
REQUESTED THE RELEASE OF THE
RIVER POLICE DEPARTMENT&apos;S
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES WITH
REASONABLE EXCEPTIONS FOR
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE VIEWING
AFTER APPEALING THE DENIAL
OF MY FOI REQUEST, I WAS GIVEN
FORTY THREE POLICIES
SPECIFICALLY NAMED IN MY
APPEAL.
SINCE THEN I&apos;VE BEEN TRYING TO
GET THE CITY OF DIVERSE POLICE
DEPARTMENT TO POST THOSE
POLICIES ON THEIR WEBSITE FOR
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE VIEWING
THROUGH EMAIL EXCHANGE WITH
CITY REPRESENTATIVES.
I WAS IT WAS CONFIRMED AND
AVERAGE POLICE WOULD RELEASE
POST ON THEIR WEBSITES TEN TO
TWENTY POLICIES PER MONTH
STARTING OCTOBER TWENTY TWENTY
ONE.
SO FAR THE NRA POLICE HAVE
FAILED TO MEET THIS COMMITMENT
INCLUDING THE FORTY THREE
POLICIES OBTAINED TO OBTAIN
THROUGH FOIA REQUEST BY
MULTIPLE MONTH LONG REPEATED
ATTEMPTS TO ESTABLISH
COMMUNICATION WITH MY CITY
THROUGH MY REPRESENTATIVES ON
THIS COUNCIL THE MAYOR, VARIOUS
CITY EMPLOYEES AND MEMBERS
OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR POLICE
DEPARTMENT HAVE COME TO HAVE
NOT COME TO ANY FRUITION OR
RESOLUTION OF THIS ISSUE.
THE LACK OF COMMUNICATION FROM
THE VARIOUS ASPECTS OF MY CITY
HAS NOW REQUIRED ME TO ADDRESS
THIS ISSUE IN A PUBLIC FORUM AS
THE ONLY VIABLE MEANS
OF ENSURED COMMUNICATION.
HERE&apos;S MY CONCERN WHY IS THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR POLICE
DEPARTMENT FAILED TO MEET THE
COMMITMENT OF POST TEN TO
TWENTY POLICIES PER MONTH ON
THEIR WEBSITE WHEN THERE ARE
POLICIES POLICIES ZERO TWELVE
ZERO TWELVE THAT HAS NOW BEEN
VETTED TWICE BY THE CITY FOR
RELEASE AND HAVE BEEN CONFIRMED
BY THE POLICE DEPARTMENT TO
HAVE BEEN SENT TO THE CHIEF
OF POLICE OVER THREE MONTHS AGO
FOR FINAL RELEASE YET HAVE NOT
BEEN POSTED ON THE WEBSITE FOR
PUBLICLY ACCESSIBLE VIEWING THE
OFFICIAL CHARTER OF THE
CIVILIAN OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
FOR THE AND EVER POLICE
DEPARTMENT CHARTER DOES NOT
COVER FOIA REQUESTS AND
THEREFORE IS NOT AN OPTION TO
ADDRESS IS CONCERNED.
I&apos;VE ALREADY ATTEMPTED TO
RESOLVE THIS ISSUE THROUGH THAT
CIVILIAN OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE.
I AM NOW ASKING THIS
REPRESENTATIVE BODY TO TAKE
IMMEDIATE ACTION TO ENSURE THAT
THE NEVER POLICE DEPARTMENT
FULFILL THEIR COMMITMENT
OF POSTING TEN TO TWENTY
POLICIES ON THEIR WEBSITE EVERY
MONTH STARTING WITH POLICY ZERO
TWELVE ZERO TWELVE AND THE
OTHER REMAINING POLICIES
RELEASED TO ME OVER NINE MONTHS
AGO.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING YOU
RESPOND AND TAKE ACTIONS TO
ADDRESS THIS ISSUE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE AND HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK IN
PUBLIC COMMENT?
SEE NO ONE IS BOJO THEIR FOLKS
ONLINE WHO WISH TO SPEAK A
PUBLIC COMMENT.
IF YOU&apos;RE ONLINE PLEASE ENTER
STAR NINE STAR NINE TO INDICATE
THAT YOU WISH TO SPEAK MICHELLE
HUGHES YOU GO AHEAD AS A PARENT
PLUS CONTRACT WITHOUT ANY
DISCUSSION AND I WAS HOPING TO
HEAR FROM YOU THAT THE ENTIRE
SUPPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION HAD
HAD SOME INPUT ON SETTING GOALS
FOR THE NEGOTIATION OF THAT
CONTRACT AND HAD BEEN AND HAD
BEEN GIVEN A CHANCE TO REVIEW
THAT CONTRACT AND PROVIDE
COMMENTS BEFORE IT BECAME
BEFORE I CAME TO YOU GUYS SOME
SOMETHING THAT CAME UP LAST
TIME THERE WAS A POLICE UNION
CONTRACT AND I REMEMBER THAT
SOME SOME OF THE CITY STAFF WAS
CONFUSED ABOUT THE DEGREE TO
WHICH THEY WANTED TO BE
INVOLVED AND I REMEMBER DR.
JACKSON SAYING YES, I WANTED TO
BE INVOLVED IN ALL BARGAINING
CONTRACTS INVOLVING THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
SO I HOPE THAT THE STAFF
FOLLOWED THAT AND I SUPPOSE HE
WAS GIVEN A CHANCE TO WEIGH IN
ON THIS.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
THANK YOU.
RUNNING IN FIVE THREE FOUR DO
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
RUNNING IN FIVE THREE FOUR DO
GO AHEAD.
YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING.
GO AHEAD.
THIS IS TOM STOPPARD CALLING
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING.
FROM LOWER TOWN IN ANN ARBOR.
THIS IS TOM STOPPARD CALLING
MR. HONI, I&apos;M VERY HAPPY THAT
FROM LOWER TOWN IN ANN ARBOR.
YOU&apos;LL BE WITH US AS A MEMBER.
MR. HONI, I&apos;M VERY HAPPY THAT
&gt;&gt; THE PUBLIC WHO WATCHES MOST
YOU&apos;LL BE WITH US AS A MEMBER.
COUNCIL MEETINGS AND PAYS
&gt;&gt; THE PUBLIC WHO WATCHES MOST
ATTENTION TO OTHER MEETINGS AS
COUNCIL MEETINGS AND PAYS
WELL.
ATTENTION TO OTHER MEETINGS AS
&gt;&gt; AND WHAT I&apos;VE SEEN I&apos;M VERY
WELL.
IMPRESSED WITH SIR SO I&apos;M GLAD
&gt;&gt; AND WHAT I&apos;VE SEEN I&apos;M VERY
TO BE WITH US.
IMPRESSED WITH SIR SO I&apos;M GLAD
&gt;&gt; PEOPLE HAVE OFTEN HEARD ME
TO BE WITH US.
SAY PROCESS MATTERS AND IT DOES
&gt;&gt; PEOPLE HAVE OFTEN HEARD ME
.
SAY PROCESS MATTERS AND IT DOES
SO I&apos;M GLAD WE AT LEAST HAD A
.
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE PROCESS
SO I&apos;M GLAD WE AT LEAST HAD A
AND I THINK YOU CAN&apos;T BLAME US
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE PROCESS
CITIZENS FOR WANTING TO ADHERE
AND I THINK YOU CAN&apos;T BLAME US
TO CERTAIN PROCESS AND YOU
CITIZENS FOR WANTING TO ADHERE
CAN&apos;T BLAME CERTAIN COUNCIL
TO CERTAIN PROCESS AND YOU
MEMBERS FOR WANTING BECAUSE
CAN&apos;T BLAME CERTAIN COUNCIL
THERE&apos;S A NUMBER OF TIMES WE&apos;VE
MEMBERS FOR WANTING BECAUSE
HEARD SPEECHES AND WHY WE DON&apos;T
THERE&apos;S A NUMBER OF TIMES WE&apos;VE
HAVE TO FOLLOW CERTAIN
HEARD SPEECHES AND WHY WE DON&apos;T
PROCESSES PROCESSES AND FRANKLY
HAVE TO FOLLOW CERTAIN
WE&apos;VE BEEN DECEIVED BY OUR
PROCESSES PROCESSES AND FRANKLY
MAYOR MULTIPLE TIMES.
WE&apos;VE BEEN DECEIVED BY OUR
SO THE SPEECHES ARE WONDERFUL.
MAYOR MULTIPLE TIMES.
&gt;&gt; MAYBE SOMETIMES THE OUTCOME
SO THE SPEECHES ARE WONDERFUL.
IS OK, MAYBE SOMETIMES IT ISN&apos;T
&gt;&gt; MAYBE SOMETIMES THE OUTCOME
.
IS OK, MAYBE SOMETIMES IT ISN&apos;T
&gt;&gt; THERE WAS ONE ARTICLE IN THE
.
NEWSPAPER TODAY THAT REMINDS US
&gt;&gt; THERE WAS ONE ARTICLE IN THE
OF AN ISSUE THAT&apos;S WE HEARD
NEWSPAPER TODAY THAT REMINDS US
SPEECHES AND WE HAD PROCESS
OF AN ISSUE THAT&apos;S WE HEARD
FAILURE.
SPEECHES AND WE HAD PROCESS
&gt;&gt; WE HAD A PROCESS IGNORED.
FAILURE.
MORNINGSIDE DEVELOPMENT IN
&gt;&gt; WE HAD A PROCESS IGNORED.
LOWERTOWN IS RECEIVING
MORNINGSIDE DEVELOPMENT IN
RECOGNITION OR STOPPING OR
LOWERTOWN IS RECEIVING
SLOWING CONTAMINATION AND
RECOGNITION OR STOPPING OR
THAT&apos;S A GOOD THING AND I&apos;M
SLOWING CONTAMINATION AND
GLAD THAT THAT&apos;S IN THE NEWS .
THAT&apos;S A GOOD THING AND I&apos;M
PEOPLE ALSO NEED TO RECOGNIZE
GLAD THAT THAT&apos;S IN THE NEWS .
THAT THAT DEVELOPMENT IS THE
PEOPLE ALSO NEED TO RECOGNIZE
BIGGEST AFFORDABLE HOUSING
THAT THAT DEVELOPMENT IS THE
SCANDAL IN THE HISTORY OF ANN
BIGGEST AFFORDABLE HOUSING
ARBOR, PROBABLY THE BIGGEST
SCANDAL IN THE HISTORY OF ANN
PLANNING AND ZONING SCANDAL IN
ARBOR, PROBABLY THE BIGGEST
THE HISTORY.
PLANNING AND ZONING SCANDAL IN
ANN ARBOR UP UNTIL YOUR
THE HISTORY.
UPCOMING VOTE ON THIS ONE IN
ANN ARBOR UP UNTIL YOUR
TERMS OF WEALTH GENERATION FOR
UPCOMING VOTE ON THIS ONE IN
PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS A COMPANY
TERMS OF WEALTH GENERATION FOR
WAS GIFTED THROUGH A WAIVER AND
PRIVATE INDIVIDUALS A COMPANY
INAPPROPRIATE WAIVER OF NINE
WAS GIFTED THROUGH A WAIVER AND
MILLION DOLLARS IN AFFORDABLE
INAPPROPRIATE WAIVER OF NINE
HOUSING FUNDS OR 93 UNITS BUILT
MILLION DOLLARS IN AFFORDABLE
ON SITE.
HOUSING FUNDS OR 93 UNITS BUILT
THE ARTICLE MENTIONS THE
ON SITE.
FIFTEEN UNITS FOR AFFORDABLE
THE ARTICLE MENTIONS THE
HOUSING THAT WERE PART OF THE
FIFTEEN UNITS FOR AFFORDABLE
BROWNFIELD TAX CREDIT BUT IT
HOUSING THAT WERE PART OF THE
OMITTED MENTIONING THE 93 UNITS
BROWNFIELD TAX CREDIT BUT IT
THAT WILL NEVER GET BUILT
OMITTED MENTIONING THE 93 UNITS
BECAUSE THE MAYOR ACTED
THAT WILL NEVER GET BUILT
INAPPROPRIATELY GRANTED AN
BECAUSE THE MAYOR ACTED
INAPPROPRIATE WAIVER TO A
INAPPROPRIATELY GRANTED AN
PRIVATE DEVELOPER.
INAPPROPRIATE WAIVER TO A
&gt;&gt; THAT DEVELOPER BROUGHT IN
PRIVATE DEVELOPER.
THE UNITS AND NEARLY TWICE WHAT
&gt;&gt; THAT DEVELOPER BROUGHT IN
HE SAID HE WOULD.
THE UNITS AND NEARLY TWICE WHAT
SO I DON&apos;T WANT TO HEAR EVER
HE SAID HE WOULD.
AGAIN SPEECHES ABOUT HOW THINGS
SO I DON&apos;T WANT TO HEAR EVER
HAVE TO PENCIL OUT, HOW THEY
AGAIN SPEECHES ABOUT HOW THINGS
PENCIL OUT IN TERMS PROCESS.
HAVE TO PENCIL OUT, HOW THEY
WE HAD A WONDERFUL
PENCIL OUT IN TERMS PROCESS.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR THAT
WE HAD A WONDERFUL
SITE FOR MIXED USE URBAN
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR THAT
VILLAGE WE WOULD HAVE LESS
SITE FOR MIXED USE URBAN
VEHICLE MILES DRIVEN.
VILLAGE WE WOULD HAVE LESS
HAVE YOU HAD MIXED USE BUT WE
VEHICLE MILES DRIVEN.
DON&apos;T AS A PLANNER WHO REVIEWED
HAVE YOU HAD MIXED USE BUT WE
IT SAID THIS IS A RESIDENTIAL
DON&apos;T AS A PLANNER WHO REVIEWED
DEVELOPMENT WITH ONLY A
IT SAID THIS IS A RESIDENTIAL
NECESSARY COMMERCIAL USE.
DEVELOPMENT WITH ONLY A
IT DID NOT MEET THE
NECESSARY COMMERCIAL USE.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WHICH IS A
IT DID NOT MEET THE
PROCESS THE CITIZENS WENT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WHICH IS A
THROUGH AND IT DIDN&apos;T HAVE A
PROCESS THE CITIZENS WENT
MASTER PLAN VISION WHICH SHOULD
THROUGH AND IT DIDN&apos;T HAVE A
HAVE BEEN NEEDED TO DEVIATE
MASTER PLAN VISION WHICH SHOULD
FROM THANK YOU THE MASTER PLAN.
HAVE BEEN NEEDED TO DEVIATE
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
FROM THANK YOU THE MASTER PLAN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; HI THIS IS ALEX LOWE.
I&apos;M CALLING FROM WARD THREE.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT WHILE I
AGREE ABSOLUTELY THAT WE NEED
THE RIGHT AMOUNT OF PROCESS FOR
EVERYTHING WE DO MORE PROCESS
CAN BE REQUESTED IN BAD FAITH
AND TOO MUCH PROCESS IS ONE
OF THE ULTIMATE TOOLS
OF OBSTRUCTIONISM.
SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE ASKING FOR THE
RIGHT AMOUNT OF PROCESS AS A
CITIZEN WHO HAS HAD
OPPORTUNITIES TO INTERACT WITH
MR. HONEY IN HIS JOB INCLUDE
INCLUDING ON THE NON CITY
RELATED THINGS I THINK I FEEL
LIKE WE&apos;RE USING THE RIGHT
AMOUNT OF PROCESS ON THIS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
ABDUL-RAHMAN ATIYYAH
HELLO.
&gt;&gt; OUTDOOR.
I&apos;M A STUDENT CALLING FOR TO
AND I WANTED TO CALL TODAY
ABOUT ADMINISTRATOR BELON FROM
WHAT I&apos;VE SEEN WATCHING CITY
COUNCIL MEETINGS FROM
ADMINISTRATOR TO HONEY HE&apos;S
BEEN A GREAT ADMINISTRATOR.
WHAT CAN I SAY?
I HAVE ANY COMPLAINTS.
I THINK HE&apos;S BEEN FANTASTIC AND
I LIKE PRETTY MUCH ALL THE
THINGS HE&apos;S DONE SO FAR.
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, I WOULD LIKE TO SEE
MORE OVERSIGHT AND A GREATER
FOCUS ON GOVERNANCE FROM THE
CITY COUNCIL AS IT IS THE CITY
COUNCIL&apos;S ROLE TO SUPERVISE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND MAKE
SURE THAT THIS ADMINISTRATION
IS CARRYING OUT THE CITY&apos;S
GOALS.
IT&apos;S NOT WORTH MUCH USE TO HAS
THINGS LIKE EIGHT TO ZERO AND
NOT ENFORCE THEM ON TO OUR
STAFF.
&gt;&gt; THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR ALSO
WON&apos;T COMMENT ON PROCESS.
I DO FOLLOW CITY COUNCIL PRETTY
CLOSELY BUT WHAT I CAN SAY THAT
LIKE I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THE
AVERAGE PERSON WANTS TO TAKE
PART IN THE PROCESS TO GIVE
PUBLIC INPUT ON THE HIRING OF A
CITY STAFFER THAT THE PUBLIC
ALMOST NEVER SEES AND IF THEY
HEAR ABOUT HIM TYPICALLY IT
HASN&apos;T IN POSITIVE NEWS IN THE
PAST IF YOU HEAR ABOUT IT HAS
BEEN POSITIVE NEWS IN THE PAST.
SO I PERSONALLY THINK THAT
PROCESS A LOT OF TIMES WHEN IT
IS A REQUEST FOR A MASSIVE
EDITION OF PROCESS IS JUST TO
STALL AND TO PERMIT PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO THROW A WRENCH INTO THE
OPERATIONS OF A WELL
FUNCTIONING CITY TO THROW IN
THAT WRENCH.
BUT I COMMEND THE CITY CITY
COUNCIL ON THEIR DECISIONS AND
DECISION TO TO TAKE THE PROPER
PROCESS ESPECIALLY FOR HIRING
AN INTERNAL CANDIDATE WHO WE
ALREADY KNOW A LOT ABOUT IS
BASICALLY BEEN IN A REAL LIFE
DOING THE JOB SO SO IT&apos;S EVEN
BETTER THAN INTERVIEW BUYOUTS.
&gt;&gt; I HAD SAID THANK YOU
CALLER
SIX SO FAR.
&gt;&gt; HI, THIS IS ERIC LIPTON
CALLING IN FROM THE FOURTH WARD
ON THE TOPIC OF MR. DE HONY.
I KNOW THERE WAS A DISCUSSION
ABOUT WHETHER THERE SHOULD BE
MORE PUBLIC INPUT ON HIS HIRING
AND A GREATER PROCESS AND IN
GENERAL I AM TOTALLY IN FAVOR
OF MORE PUBLIC INPUT AND A
GREATER PROCESS.
BUT THERE ARE EXCEPTIONS AND
SOMETIMES IT&apos;S GOOD TO SEE THAT
THE GOVERNMENT CAN ACT WITH A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF APPROPRIATE
HASTE AND APPROPRIATE SPEED AND
BE A LITTLE MORE NIMBLE THAN
WE&apos;RE USED TO.
AND THIS IS A CASE WHERE I
THINK IT&apos;S PRETTY APPARENT THAT
THE QUALIFICATIONS THAT MR.
ZONI HAS AND HIS HIS GENERAL
DEMEANOR AND HIS INCREDIBLE
BREADTH OF KNOWLEDGE MAKES THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR LUCKY TO HAVE
HIM CONSIDERING ALL OF THE
TUMULT AND THE INCREDIBLE
AMOUNTS OF ROYALLE IN THE CITY
GOVERNMENT.
SO HE DOES BRING A INCREDIBLE
AIR OF CALM AND COMPETENCE AND
I SALUTE HIM.
YOU KNOW, THERE&apos;S NOTHING I
ADMIRE MORE THAN COMPETENT AND
ETHICAL PROFESSIONAL AND THAT&apos;S
WHAT HE SEEMS TO BE AS FAR AS
FAR AS I&apos;VE SEEN.
SO IT&apos;S JUST A MEMBER OF THE
PUBLIC.
LET ME SAY THAT THIS IS A
DECISION OF THE COUNCIL THAT I
DO APPROVE OF , ALTHOUGH MR.
HAYNER POINTED OUT EXCLUDING
CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL
FROM THE UNDERLYING DECISION
MAKING PROCESS RUBS HIS HIS
VOTERS AND THOSE IN HIS WARD
OF HIS REPRESENTATION.
I OBJECT TO THAT.
BUT AS FAR AS MR. ONLY GOES, I
THINK YOU GUYS MADE THE RIGHT
DECISION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
.
&gt;&gt; SEE NO ONE PUBLIC
IS CLOSE
OR THEIR COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL COUNCILMAN SONG JUST
WANT TO QUICKLY ADDRESS THE
CONCERN ABOUT ECHO PARK AND HOW
INFORMED COUNCIL WAS OR IF
ADMINISTRATION AND COUNCIL HAD
WORKED WITH IPAC ON THE CHIEF&apos;S
AGREEMENT.
THERE HAVE BEEN DISCUSSIONS
SINCE DECEMBER AIRPARK HAD
RECEIVED THE TENTATIVE
AGREEMENT ON MARCH 2ND SO THERE
WAS NOTICE AND WORK THAT WAS
DONE BEFORE TONIGHT&apos;S VOTE AS
FAR AS THE NEXT CONTRACT AND
OUR POLICE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION
CONTRACT WE HAD A MEETING
SCHEDULED FOR TOMORROW THAT&apos;S
BEING RESCHEDULED FOR APRIL
11TH AND THE HOPE IS THAT WE&apos;LL
BE ABLE TO ADVANCE A NUMBER
OF CONCERNS AHEAD OF AHEAD
OF THOSE NEGOTIATIONS.
SO THERE ARE DATES AND
COMMITMENTS TOWARDS THAT END.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
ACTUALLY COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
JUST COVERED WHAT I WAS GOING
THROUGH.
SO COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER YEAH.
THANKS MR. MAYOR.
I JUST WANT TO ANNOUNCE THAT
I&apos;VE BEEN ASKED AND KIND
OF HONORED TO ACCEPT I&apos;M GOING
TO SPEAK AT HASH BASH ON APRIL
2ND.
IT&apos;S THE FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY I
KNOW THIS BODIES WE&apos;VE DONE
SOME GOOD THINGS AROUND
DECRIMINALIZATION OF OF DRUGS
AND DRUG POLICY AND KICKING
BACK SOME OF THE MONEY APPLYING
THE MONEY PROPERLY FOR TAX
REBATES FROM SALES OF MARIJUANA
TO HELP THOSE WHO ARE MOST
IMPACTED BY THE WAR ON DRUGS.
AND I THINK THAT WAS IMPORTANT
THAT WE DID THAT AND THAT
MONEY&apos;S BEEN BEING PUT TO GOOD
USE ALREADY WITH THESE
EXPUNGEMENT FAIRS AND SO ON
THAT&apos;S BEEN IT&apos;S BEEN BEING
USED TO FUND AND SO I&apos;M HAPPY
TO SEE THAT THAT&apos;S HAPPENING
AND I&apos;M YOU KNOW, I&apos;M HAPPY TO
SPEAK.
I&apos;M NOT SURE WHAT I&apos;M GOING TO
TALK ABOUT YET BUT YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S AN IMPORTANT EVENT IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND I JUST I&apos;M JUST
EXCITED TO BE UP THERE AGAIN
WITH SOME FOLKS SPEAKING TO
SPEAKING TO THE CROWD AND THE
STUDENTS FOR SENSIBLE DRUG
POLICY ARE ARE HAVE ORGANIZED
AROUND THIS NOTION
OF DECRIMINALIZING ALL DRUGS UP
TO A CERTAIN EXTENT.
AND SO I WAS READING THROUGH
THEIR INFORMATION TODAY AND YOU
KNOW, IT&apos;S INTERESTING THEY&apos;RE
GOING TO BE THERE AT HASH BARS
JUST LIKE THE THE ANGIOGENIC
PLANT GROUPS TO DECRIMINALIZE
NATURE MICHIGAN IN ANN ARBOR
ARE GOING TO BE THERE AND SO
I&apos;D ENCOURAGE THE COMMUNITY GET
OUT THERE AND MEET YOUR
NEIGHBORS AND SEE WHAT CAN BE
DONE TO GET ON BOARD WITH
DECRIMINALIZATION AND REFORMING
OUR WHAT ARE IN MANY INSTANCES
ARE SENSELESS POLICIES AROUND
PERSONAL USE OF DRUGS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD.
I WANT TO THANK THE ENERGY
COMMISSION FOR THEIR WORK ON
THE ISSUE OF HOUSING RESOLUTION
AND THEY MADE SIGNIFICANT
CHANGES TO THE RESOLUTION
IMPROVEMENTS ESPECIALLY
TIGHTENING UP THE
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS BECAUSE
WHEN WE INCREASE DENSITY AND
ESPECIALLY WHEN WE REDUCE MILES
DRIVEN TO THE WORKPLACE THERE
AND WORSE TO SIGNIFY GENTLY
MOVING TOWARDS OUR
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS.
SO THE ENERGY COMMISSION NOT
ONLY HAS IMPROVED THE
RESOLUTION, THEY ALSO PASSED
IT.
SECOND READING IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
GO TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION FOR A SECOND READING
LATER THIS WEEK.
SO I EXPECT IT WILL BE COMING
BACK TO COUNCIL FOLLOWING THE
BUDGET PROCESS AND THE LAST
THING IS WE KEEP HEARING ABOUT
PUBLIC RESTROOMS AND I GO TO
OTHER CITIES AND THEY HAVE NICE
TRAILER RESTROOMS.
SO I&apos;M WONDERING IS THIS A
QUESTION FOR THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR OR IS THIS
SOMETHING WHERE WE NEED A
FORMAL RESOLUTION?
I GUESS I&apos;M LOOKING FOR
DIRECTION.
I DON&apos;T NEED IT RIGHT NOW BUT
IT&apos;S REALLY EMBARRASSING THAT
WE DON&apos;T HAVE ADEQUATE PUBLIC
RESTROOMS IN OUR DOWNTOWN AREA.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN DENHA SECOND
COUNCILMAN NELSON DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU